
Hutchinson, MN Code of Ordinances


HUTCHINSON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES



2018 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 17-779, passed 10-24-2017



 



Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com



CITY OFFICIALS OF
HUTCHINSON, MINNESOTA



 



CITY COUNCIL


Mayor
 
Gary Forcier


Member Seat 1
 
Mary Christensen


Member Seat 2
 
John Lofdahl


Member Seat 3
 
Steve Cook


Member Seat 4
 
Chad Czmowski


CITY ADMINISTRATION


City Administrator
 
Matt Jaunich




 



ADOPTING ORDINANCE



Ordinance No. 15-0748



An Ordinance Enacting a Code of Ordinances for the City of Hutchinson,
Minnesota, Amending, Restating, Revising, Updating, Codifying and Compiling
Certain Ordinances of the City Dealing With the Subjects Embraced in the Code
of Ordinances, and Providing Penalties for the Violation of the Code of
Ordinances.



WHEREAS M.S. §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause its
ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,



NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Hutchinson, Minnesota, hereby
ordains:



Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are herby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Hutchinson". This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.



Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:



   I.   General Provisions



   III.   Administration



   V.   Public Works



   VII.   Traffic Code



   IX.   General Regulations



   XI.   Business Regulations



   XIII.   General Offenses



   XV.   Land Usage



Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective
date of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole
or in part in the proposed Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall
not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established
prior to the effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect
the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or
detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to
certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of
bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of
land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or
covered by the Code of Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances
codified in this Code shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or
until an ordinance or resolution adopting a fee schedule is adopted or
amended.



Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the city's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause
a substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the
Code of Ordinances to the local library. The official copy of this Code of
Ordinances shall be marked and kept in the office of the City Clerk.



Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by
Minnesota Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.



Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in
the City's official newspaper.



Adopted by the City Council this 22nd day of December, 2015.



               



                        Attest:



/s/Gary T. Forcier                                   
      /s/Matthew Jaunich                         



Gary T. Forcier, Mayor               Matthew Jaunich, City
Administrator



CITY CHARTER



   Chapter



      1.   Name and General Provisions



      2.   Form of Government



      3.   Procedure of Council



      4.   Nominations and Elections



      5.   Initiative, Referendum, and Recall



      6.   Administration of City Affairs



      7.   Taxation and Finances



      8.   Public Improvements and Special Assessments



      9.   Eminent Domain



      10.   Franchises



      11.   Public Ownership and Operation of Utilities



      12.   Public Ownership and Operation of Waste Management
Facilities and Related Services



      13.   Miscellaneous Provisions



CHAPTER 1
Name and General Provisions



Section 1.01. NAME AND BOUNDARIES. The City of Hutchinson, McLeod County,
Minnesota (hereinafter referred to as City) shall continue to be a municipal
corporation under that name and with the same boundaries as now are or may be
established hereafter.



Section 1.02. POWERS OF THE CITY. The City shall have all the powers which it
may now or hereafter be possible for a municipal corporation in this State to
exercise in harmony with the constitution of the State of Minnesota and of
the United States. It is the intention of this Charter to confer upon the
people of the City of Hutchinson every power which the Charter would have if
such power were specifically mentioned. The Charter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the City and the specific mention of particular
municipal powers in other sections of this Charter does not limit the powers
of the City to those thus mentioned. Unless granted to some other officer or
body, all powers are vested in the City council.



CHAPTER 2
Form of Government



Section 2.01. FORM OF GOVERNMENT. The form of government established by this
Charter is the Mayor-Council plan. The council, consisting of the mayor and
four council members elected at large, shall exercise the legislative power
of the City and determine all matters of policy.



Section 2.02. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS. The council may establish boards or
commissions to advise the council with respect to any municipal function or
activity, to investigate any subject of interest to the City or to perform
quasi-judicial functions. The mayor and council shall determine which board
or commission shall have a council representative.



Section 2.03. DUTIES AND POWERS. The council shall determine and assign the
duties of the several City departments and appointed boards and commissions
subject to provisions herein and shall prescribe the powers and duties of
appointive officers and employees.



Section 2.04. ELECTIVE OFFICERS. The elective officers of the City shall be
registered voters of the City and shall consist of a mayor who shall serve
for two years and four council members elected at large who shall serve for
four years. The term of office of each elective officer shall begin the first
Monday in January following the city election and qualification of such
elective officer and shall continue until a successor is elected and
qualified. If the first Monday is a holiday, the term of office shall then
begin the first Tuesday in January.



(Ord. 16-755, passed 3-8-2016)



Section 2.05. APPOINTIVE OFFICER. The appointive officer of the City, not
including members of boards or commissions established herein or by
ordinance, shall be appointed by majority vote of the council, and shall
consist of a city administrator.



(14-728, passed 6-10-2014)



Section 2.06. MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEM. The mayor shall be the presiding
officer of the council. At its first regular meeting in January after each
City election, the council shall choose a mayor pro tem who shall serve as
presiding officer in the mayor’s absence and as acting mayor in case of the
mayor’s disability or absence from the City, or in case of a vacancy in the
office of mayor. The mayor shall have a vote as a member of the council. The
mayor pro tem shall exercise all powers and perform all duties conferred and
imposed upon the mayor by this Charter, the ordinances of the City and laws
of the State of Minnesota.



The mayor shall be recognized as the official head of the City for all
ceremonial purposes, by the courts for the purposes of serving civil process,
and by the governor for the purposes of martial law. The mayor shall study
the operations of the City government and shall report to the council any
neglect, dereliction of duty, or waste on the part of any officer or
department of the City. In time of public danger or emergency the mayor may,
with the consent of the council, take command of the police, maintain order
and enforce the law.



Section 2.07. INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES. No elective officer shall hold any other
paid municipal office or employment for the City, and no former elective
officer shall be appointed to any paid appointive office or employment for
the City which office or employment was created or the compensation for which
was increased during such elective officer’s term of office, within one
year of leaving such elective office.



Section 2.08. SALARIES. The salaries of the elective officers shall be
established by M.S. § 415.11, as such statute may be amended from time to
time. The council shall establish the salary of the city administrator.



Section 2.09. VACANCIES IN THE COUNCIL. A vacancy in the council shall be
deemed to exist in case of expiration of the term of any elective officer
without an elected successor, the failure of any elective officer to qualify
on or before the date of the second regular meeting of the new council, or by
reason of the death, resignation, removal from office, removal from the City,
continuous absence from the City of more than three months, conviction of a
felony of any such elective officer whether before or after such
qualification, or by reason of the failure of any elective officer without
good cause to perform any of the duties of membership in the council for a
period of three months. In each such case the council shall by resolution
declare such vacancy to exist and shall forthwith appoint an eligible person
to fill the same. In the case of a tie vote in the council, the mayor shall
make the appointment. In the event the unexpired term of the vacant seat is
one year or less, such appointee shall complete the unexpired term.



In the event the unexpired term of the vacant seat exceeds one year, a
special election shall be held at or before the next regular municipal
election to fill the remainder of the vacancy. The city administrator shall
give published notice of such special election in the official newspaper of
general circulation, at least 30 days prior to said special election.



Section 2.10. INVESTIGATION OF CITY AFFAIRS. The council and any person
formally authorized by the council shall have power to make investigations
into the City’s affairs, to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and
compel the production of books and papers. The council may at any time
provide for an examination or audit of any commission, board, department or
employee of the City government and it may cause to be made any survey or
research study of any subject of municipal concern.



Section 2.11. INTERFERENCE WITH ADMINISTRATION. Neither the council nor any
of its members shall dictate the appointment or removal of any City employee,
but the council may express its views and freely discuss with the city
administrator anything pertaining to appointment and removal of City
employees. Except for the purpose of inquiry and investigation under Section
2.10, the council and its members shall deal with and control City employees
under the jurisdiction of the city administrator solely through the city
administrator, and neither the council nor any council member shall give
orders to any City employee either publicly or privately.



CHAPTER 3
Procedure of Council



Section 3.01. COUNCIL MEETINGS. On the first Monday in January following a
regular municipal election the council shall meet at the usual place and time
for the holding of council meetings. If the first Monday is a holiday, the
first Tuesday in January shall then be used. At this time the newly elected
members of the council shall assume their duties. Thereafter the council
shall meet at such time each month as may be prescribed by ordinance and
resolution. The mayor or any other three members of the council may call
special meetings of the council upon at least twelve hours notice to each
member of the council and such reasonable public notice as may be prescribed
by council rule in compliance with the laws of Minnesota. To the extent
provided by law all meetings of the council shall be public, and any citizen
shall have access to the minutes and records thereof at all reasonable times.



(Ord. 16-758, passed 6-28-2016)



Section 3.02. SECRETARY OF THE COUNCIL. The city administrator may designate
any employee of the City (except a member of the council) to act as secretary
of the council. The secretary shall keep a journal of council proceedings and
such other records and perform such other duties as this Charter or the
council may require. The council may provide for such other officers and
employees as may be necessary to serve at its meetings.



Section 3.03. RULES OF PROCEDURE AND QUORUM. The council shall determine its
own rules and order of business. A majority of all elective officers shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
time to time. The council may by ordinance provide a means by which a
minority may compel the attendance of absent members. Except as otherwise
provided by statute, this Charter, or ordinances enacted pursuant to it, the
proceedings of the council shall be conducted in accordance with
“Robert’s Rules of Order Revised.”



Section 3.04. ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS. Except as otherwise
provided in this Charter, all legislation shall be by ordinance. A roll call
vote on all ordinances, resolutions and motions shall be recorded unless the
vote is unanimous, provided however, that a roll call vote is required on
each appropriation of money, except for payment of judgments, claims and
amounts fixed by statute. An affirmative vote of a majority of all the
members of the council shall be required for the passage of all ordinances
and resolutions except as otherwise provided in this Charter or Minnesota
Statutes.



Section 3.05. PROCEDURE ON ORDINANCES. Every proposed ordinance shall be
presented in writing. No ordinance shall contain more than one subject which
shall be clearly expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be “The
City of Hutchinson ordains.” No ordinance, except an emergency ordinance,
shall be passed at the meeting at which it is introduced and at least seven
days shall elapse between its introduction and final passage.



Section 3.06. EMERGENCY ORDINANCES. An emergency ordinance is an ordinance
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, morals,
safety or welfare in which the emergency is defined and declared in a
preamble, and the ordinance is adopted by a vote of at least four members of
the council.



Section 3.07. PROCEDURE ON RESOLUTIONS. Every resolution shall be presented
in writing. If requested by an individual elective officer, a resolution
shall be read in full before a vote is taken.



Section 3.08. SIGNING AND PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS. Every
ordinance or resolution passed by the council shall be signed by the mayor or
by the mayor pro tem in the absence of the mayor, or by any one council
member, in the absence of the mayor and the mayor pro tem, attested, filed
and preserved by the city administrator. Every ordinance shall be published
at least once in the official newspaper. In the case of lengthy ordinances,
or ordinances which include charts or maps, if the council determines that
publication of the title and a summary of the ordinance would clearly inform
the public of the intent and effect of the ordinance, the council may by a
majority vote direct that only the title and a summary be published, with
notice that a printed copy of the entire text of the ordinance is available
for inspection at the office of the city administrator and any other public
location which the council designates. Prior to publication, the council
shall approve the title and text of the summary for accuracy and clarity. To
the extent and in the manner provided by law an ordinance may incorporate by
reference statute, state administrative rule or regulation of Minnesota, a
code or ordinance or part thereof without publishing the material referred to
in full.



Section 3.09. WHEN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS TAKE EFFECT. Every resolution
and emergency ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage or at
such later date as is fixed in it. Every other ordinance shall take effect
upon publication or at such later date as is fixed therein. Every ordinance
adopted by the voters of the City shall take effect immediately upon its
adoption or at such later time as is fixed thereon.



Section 3.10. AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS. Every
ordinance or resolution repealing all or part of a previous ordinance or
resolution shall give the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or
resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. No ordinance or resolution
shall be amended by reference to the title alone, but such an amending
ordinance or resolution shall set forth in full each section or subdivision
to be amended and shall indicate by appropriate type or symbols matter to be
omitted or added.



Section 3.11. REVISION AND CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES. The city council may
revise, rearrange and codify its ordinances with such additions and deletions
as may be deemed necessary. Such ordinance code shall be published in book,
pamphlet or continuously revised looseleaf form and copies shall be made
available by the council at the office of the City administrator for general
distribution to the public free or at a reasonable charge. Publication in
such a code shall be sufficient publication of any ordinance provision not
previously published if a notice that copies of the codification are
available at the office of the City administrator is published in the
official newspaper for at least two successive weeks.



CHAPTER 4
Nominations and Elections



Section 4.01. REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION. A regular municipal election shall
be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each
even-numbered year at such place or places as the city council may designate.
The city administrator shall give at least two weeks’ publication notice of
the time and place of holding such election, and of the officers to be
elected. At least one week before the election the city administrator shall
publish a sample ballot in the official newspaper and post a sample ballot at
appropriate locations for public inspection. Failure to give such a notice or
to make such publication or posting shall not invalidate the election.



Section 4.011. PRIMARY MUNICIPAL ELECTION. The City shall establish a primary
election to coincide with state primary elections. No later than the next
city council meeting after the adoption of this Charter change, the council
shall designate each council seat, whether occupied or not, by a separate
numerical number or letter of the alphabet and assign each council member to
one of the seats, with the mayor assigned as mayor. Each council seat and the
office of mayor so designated, shall be a separate office for each subsequent
election. Any incumbent member of the council filing for re-election shall be
a candidate only for the office of which he/she is the incumbent, except in
the case where an incumbent council member files for the office of mayor.
Each person filing for the office of council member shall state in his/her
affidavit of candidacy, the designated council seat that he/she is a
candidate for. If less than three candidates file for any one seat, the
candidates or candidate shall proceed to the general or special election.
Incumbency shall not be designated on the ballot.



(Ord. 16-758, passed 6-28-2016)



Section 4.02. SPECIAL ELECTIONS. The council may by resolution order a
special election and provide all means for holding it. Except as provided in
Section 2.09, the city administrator shall give at least two weeks’
published notice of a special election. The procedure at such election shall
conform as nearly as possible to that prescribed for other City elections,
including a primary municipal election if an elective office is to be filled
at the special election.



In the event that there is only one official candidate on the ballot for the
vacant council seat, the special election for the council seat may be
canceled by the city council on its own motion pursuant to M.S. § 205.10,
Subd. 6 and that candidate shall be appointed to serve the remainder of the
unexpired term for the vacant council seat.



(Ord. 16-758, passed 6-28-2016)



Section 4.03. FILING FOR OFFICE. No earlier than 60 days or later than 45
days before the municipal primary election, or such other time periods
mandated by law, any registered voter of the City qualified under the state
constitution for elective office may, by filing an affidavit of candidacy for
a designated elective office and paying a filing fee of $20 to the city
administrator, have such voter’s name placed on the municipal primary
election ballot. Absentee ballots shall be available 30 days prior to the
primary or regular municipal election. Each such candidate who is not
eliminated in the municipal primary election becomes a candidate for the
designated elective office for which such candidate has filed, and shall be
placed on the regular municipal election ballot.



Section 4.04. PROCEDURE AT ELECTIONS. Subject to this Charter and applicable
state laws, the council may by ordinance further regulate the conduct of
municipal elections. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter and
supplementary ordinances, general state laws on elections shall apply to
municipal elections.



CHAPTER 5
Initiative, Referendum, and Recall



Section 5.01. GENERAL VOTER AUTHORITY. The voters of the City shall have the
right, in accordance with this Charter, to propose ordinances, to require
ordinances to be submitted to a vote, and to recall elected public officials
by processes known respectively as the initiative, referendum and recall.



Section 5.02. PETITIONS. An initiative, referendum or recall, shall be
initiated by a petition signed by registered voters of the City equal in
number to 10 percent of registered voters as of the last City election. Each
petition shall be sponsored by a committee of five registered voters whose
names and addresses shall appear on the petition. A petition may consist of
one or more papers, but each paper circulated separately shall contain at its
head or attached to it the statement required by Sections 5.06, 5.07 or 5.08,
as the case may be. The signature and street address of each signer shall
appear on the petition. Each separate page of the petition shall have
appended to it a certificate, verified by oath, that each signature is the
genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be. The person
making the certificate shall be a resident of the City. Any person whose name
appears on a petition may withdraw such name by a statement in writing filed
with the city administrator before the city administrator advises the council
of the sufficiency of the petition.



(Ord. 13-715, passed 11-26-2013; Ord. 14-724, passed 6-10-2014)



Section 5.03. DETERMINATION OF SUFFICIENCY AND REGULARITY. Immediately upon
receipt of the petition, the city administrator shall examine the petition as
to its sufficiency and report to the council within 20 days. Upon receiving
the report, the council shall determine by resolution the sufficiency and
regularity of the petition, setting forth in detail any insufficiency or
irregularity. Sufficient means the required number of registered voters have
signed the petition and each required signature is authentic. Regular means
the petition contains all subject matter upon which a vote of the people is
authorized under initiative, referendum or recall procedures of this Charter,
or the initiation of Charter amendments by Minnesota statutes. No member of
any initiative, referendum, or recall committee, no person circulating a
paper for signatures, and no signer of any such paper, or any other person,
shall accept or offer any pecuniary or other reward for service rendered in
connection with the circulation.



(Ord. 14-724, passed 6-10-2014)



Section 5.04. FURTHER REGULATIONS. The council may provide by ordinance such
further regulations for the initiative, referendum, recall, not inconsistent
with this Charter, as it deems necessary.



Section 5.05. DISPOSITION OF PETITION. If the council determines that the
petition is insufficient or irregular, the city administrator shall deliver a
copy of the petition, together with the resolution describing the
insufficiency or irregularity, to the sponsoring committee. The committee
shall have 30 days in which to file additional signature papers and to
correct the petition in all other particulars. If at the end of that period
the council finds that the petition is still insufficient or irregular, the
petition shall be filed in the office of the city administrator who shall
notify the sponsoring committee. The final finding that the petition is
insufficient or irregular shall not prejudice the filing of a new petition
for the same purpose nor shall it prevent the council from referring the
ordinance to the voters at the next regular or special election at its option.



Section 5.06. INITIATIVE. Any ordinance, except an ordinance relating to the
budget or capital program, the appropriation of money, the levy of taxes, or
the salaries of City officers or employees, may be proposed by a petition
which shall state at the head of each page or attached thereto the exact text
of the proposed ordinance. If the council passes the proposed ordinance with
amendments and a four-fifths (4/5) majority of the sponsoring committee do
not disapprove the amended form by a statement filed with the city
administrator within 10 days of its passage by the council, the ordinance
need not be submitted to the voters. If the council fails to enact the
ordinance in acceptable form within 60 days after the final determination of
sufficiency and regularity of the petition, the ordinance shall be placed on
the ballot at the next election occurring in the City. If no election is to
occur within 120 days after the filing of the petition, the council shall
call a special election on the ordinance to be held within such period. If a
majority of those voting on the ordinance vote in its favor, it shall become
effective 30 days after adoption unless the ordinance specifies a later
effective date.



Section 5.07. REFERENDUM. Any ordinance subject to the initiative may be
subjected to referendum by a petition which shall state, at the head of each
page or on an attached paper, a description of the ordinance. Any ordinance
upon which a petition is filed, other than an emergency ordinance, shall be
suspended in its operation as soon as the petition is found sufficient and
regular. If the ordinance is not thereafter entirely repealed, it shall be
placed on the ballot at the next election or at a special election called for
that purpose, as the council determines. If a majority of the voters voting
thereon favors the ordinance, it shall go into effect immediately or on the
date specified in the ordinance; if a majority of the electors voting thereon
votes against the ordinance, it shall be considered repealed upon
certification of the election results. If a petition is filed against an
emergency ordinance, the ordinance shall remain in effect but shall be
repealed if a majority of the voters voting on the ordinance vote against it.



Section 5.08. THE RECALL. In the recall petition of any elective officer of
the City, the committee shall certify to the city administrator the name of
the elective officer whose removal is sought, a statement of the grounds for
removal in not more than 250 words, and their intention to petition for the
recall of such elective officer. The statement of grounds for removal must
allege serious malfeasance or nonfeasance during the term of office in the
performance of the duties of the office, or conviction during the term of
office of a serious crime. A copy of this certificate shall be attached to
each signature paper and no signature paper shall be put into circulation
previous to such certification.



Section 5.09. RECALL ELECTION. If the petition or amended petition is found
sufficient and regular, the city administrator shall officially notify the
person sought to be recalled of the sufficiency and regularity of the
petition and of the pending action. The council shall at its next meeting, by
resolution, provide for the holding of a special recall election not less
than 30 nor more than 45 days after such meeting, but if any other election
is to occur within 60 days after such meeting, the council may in its
discretion provide for the holding of the recall election at that time.



CHAPTER 6
Administration of City Affairs



Section 6.01. THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The city administrator shall be the
chief administrative officer of the City. The city administrator shall be
chosen by the council solely on the basis of training, experience, executive
and administrative qualifications.



The city administrator need not be a resident of the City at the time the
council makes the appointment, but may reside outside the City while in
office only with the approval of the council, as described in M.S. § 415.16,
subd. 2. The city administrator shall be appointed for an indefinite term and
may be removed at any time by an affirmative vote of a majority of the
council; but after one year of service the city administrator may demand
written charges and a public hearing on the charges before the council prior
to the effective date of final removal. After the hearing, if one is
demanded, the council shall have unlimited discretion either to reinstate the
administrator or affirm final removal. Pending the hearing and removal, the
council may suspend the administrator from office. With the approval of the
council, the administrator may designate some properly qualified person to
perform the duties of the administrator during any absence or disability of
the city administrator or while the office is vacant.



Section 6.02. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The city
administrator shall be responsible to the council for the administration of
the City’s affairs, and shall have the powers and duties set forth in the
following subdivisions:



   Subd. 1. The enforcement of this Charter and the laws, ordinances, and
resolutions of the City.



   Subd. 2. The appointment, supervision, removal or transfer, upon the
basis of merit and fitness and subject to applicable personnel rules, all
heads of departments and City employees.



   Subd. 3. The direction and supervision of all departments and offices
of the City, except Hutchinson Utilities as otherwise provided by law or
Charter.



   Subd. 4. The city administrator shall attend all meetings of the
council and may take part in discussion but not vote; but may be excluded
from any meeting at which the city administrator’s removal is considered,
if the council, in its discretion so chooses.



   Subd. 5. The city administrator shall recommend to the council for
adoption such measures as are necessary for the welfare of the people and the
efficient administration of the City’s affairs.



   Subd. 6. The city administrator shall keep the council fully advised on
the financial condition and needs of the City, and shall prepare and submit
to the council the annual budget and capital program.



   Subd. 7. The city administrator shall submit to the council and make
available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the City at the end of each fiscal year.



   Subd. 8. The City administrator shall perform such other duties as are
prescribed by this Charter or may be required by the council.



Section 6.03. ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION. The council may by resolution
establish City departments, offices, enterprise funds and agencies and
prescribe their functions. No power or duty conferred by this Charter upon a
particular department, office, enterprise fund or agency shall be transferred
to any other. Department means any City function organized under the direct
control of a single department head. Office means a City function carried out
by a single individual. Enterprise fund means an  organization which
provides a quasi public service, recovering its costs primarily through user
fees, with any surplus periodically deposited in the City general fund.
Agency means an organization which carries out a City function, funding its
operations primarily through ad valorem taxes, grants, and appropriations
from the City budget.



Section 6.04. CITY EMPLOYEES. The council may by resolution establish such
employee positions as the council may see fit. The council may by resolution
abolish such employee positions and it may combine the duties of various
employees as it may see fit.



Section 6.05. PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS. The city administrator shall be the
chief purchasing agent of the City. Subject to Chapters 11 and 12, all City
purchases and contracts shall be made or let by the city administrator,
either personally or by appropriate delegation. The amount shall be governed
by ordinance. All other purchases shall be made and all other contracts let
by the council after the recommendation of the City administrator has first
been obtained. Contracts shall be made in compliance with the uniform
contracting law, and whenever competitive bids are required, the contract
shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder. All contracts, bonds, and
instruments of any kind to which the City is a party shall be signed by the
mayor and the city administrator on behalf of the City and shall be executed
in the name of the City. The council may by ordinance adopt further
regulations for the making of bids and the letting of contracts.



CHAPTER 7
Taxation and Finances



Section 7.01. COUNCIL TO CONTROL FINANCES. The council shall have full
authority over the financial affairs of the City. It shall provide for the
collection of all revenues and other assets, settlement of accounts, and the
safekeeping and disbursement of public monies. The council shall provide for
an annual certified audit of the City’s accounts.



Section 7.02. FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the City shall be the calendar
year.



Section 7.03. SYSTEM OF TAXATION. Subject to the state constitution, and
except as forbidden by it or by state law, the council shall have full power
to provide by ordinance for a system of local taxation. This authority
includes the power by ordinance to assess, levy, and collect taxes on all
subjects or objects of taxation except as limited or prohibited by the state
constitution, by this Charter or by laws imposing restrictions upon the City
irrespective of Charter provisions.



Section 7.04. SUBMISSION OF BUDGET. Annually the city administrator shall
recommend and submit to the council a budget in accordance with a budget
calendar to be established by ordinance or, in the absence of ordinance, by
September 1. The budget shall provide a complete financial plan for all City
funds and activities for the ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by
law or charter, shall be in such form as the city administrator deems
desirable or the council may require. It shall include a summary and show in
detail all estimated income and all proposed expenditures, including debt
service and comparative figures for the current fiscal year, actual and
estimated, and the preceding fiscal year. In addition to showing proposed
expenditures for current operations, it shall show proposed capital
expenditures to be made during the year and the proposed method of financing
each such capital expenditure. The total proposed operating budget to be
provided from the property tax shall not exceed the amounts authorized by law
and this Charter. Consistent with these provisions, the budget shall contain
such information and be in the form prescribed by ordinance and by law.



Section 7.05. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM. The city administrator shall
prepare and submit to the council a recommended five-year capital improvement
program no later than August 1 each year. The capital improvement program
shall include a list of all capital improvements proposed to be undertaken
during the next five fiscal years, with appropriate supporting information as
to the necessity for such improvements; cost estimates, method of financing
and recommended time schedules for each such improvement; and the estimated
annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or
acquired. This information shall be revised and extended each year for
capital improvement still pending or in process.



(Ord. 16-758, passed 6-28-2016)



Section 7.06. COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET. The budget shall be considered by the
second regular monthly meeting of the council in September and at subsequent
meetings until a budget is adopted for the ensuing year. The meetings shall
be so conducted as to give interested citizens a reasonable opportunity to be
heard. The council may revise the proposed budget but no amendment to the
budget shall increase the authorized expenditures to an amount greater than
the estimated income. The council shall adopt the budget by a resolution
which shall set forth the total for each budgeted fund and each department
with such segregation as to objects and purposes of expenditures as the
council deems necessary for purposes of budget control. The council shall
also adopt a resolution levying the amount of taxes provided in the budget
and the city administrator shall certify the tax resolution to the county
auditor in accordance with law. Adoption of the budget resolution shall
constitute appropriations at the beginning of the fiscal year of the sums
fixed in the resolution for the several purposes named.



(Ord. 16-758, passed 6-28-2016)



Section 7.07. ENFORCEMENT OF THE BUDGET. The City administrator shall enforce
strictly the provisions of the budget, and shall not authorize any payment or
the incurring of any obligation by the City unless an appropriation has been
made in the budget resolution and there is a sufficient unexpended balance
left after deducting the total past expenditures and encumbrances against the
appropriation; provided, however, that the city administrator is authorized
to approve a transfer of funds from one appropriation to another within the
budget of any department of the City. Department means any City function
organized under the direct control of a single department head, and does not
include Hutchinson Utilities Commission. Approval by the city administrator
of such transfer shall be made by written memorandum setting forth the
reasons therefor. No officer or employee of the City shall place any order or
make any purchase except for a purpose and to the amount authorized in the
budget resolution, or as authorized by the city administrator as described
herein. Any obligation incurred by any person in the employ of the City for
any purpose not authorized in the budget resolution, or not authorized by the
city administrator as described herein, or for any amount in excess of the
amount authorized shall be a personal obligation upon the person incurring
the obligation. No check shall be issued or transfer made to any account
other than one owned by the City until the claim to which it relates has been
supported by an itemized bill, payroll, or time-sheet or other document
approved and signed by the responsible City officer who vouches for its
correctness and reasonableness.



Section 7.08. ALTERATIONS IN THE BUDGET. After the budget resolution has been
adopted, the council shall not increase the amounts fixed in the resolution
beyond the estimated receipts except to the extent that actual receipts
exceed the estimate. At any time the council may, by resolution approved by a
majority of its members, reduce the sums appropriated for any purpose by the
budget resolution or authorize the transfer of sums from unencumbered
balances of appropriations in the budget resolution to other purposes.



Section 7.09. EMERGENCY DEBT CERTIFICATES. If in any year the receipts from
taxes or other sources should from some unforeseen cause become insufficient
for the ordinary expenses of the City, or if any calamity or other public
emergency necessitates the making of extraordinary expenditures, the council
may by ordinance issue on such terms and in such manner as the council
determines emergency debt certificates to run not to exceed three years. A
tax sufficient to pay principal and interest on such certificates with the
margin required by law shall be levied as required by law. The ordinance
authorizing an issue of such emergency debt certificate shall state the
nature of the emergency and be approved by at least four members of the
council. It may be passed as an emergency ordinance.



Section 7.10. FUNDS. There shall be maintained in the City treasury a general
fund and such other funds as may be required by statute, ordinance, or
resolution. The council may, by ordinance or resolution, make inter-fund
loans, except from trust and agency funds, as it may deem necessary and
appropriate.



Section 7.11. CITY INDEBTEDNESS. Except as provided in Section 7.09, no
obligations shall be issued to pay current expenses, but the council may
issue and sell obligations for any other municipal purpose in accordance with
law and within the limitations prescribed by law. Except in the case of
obligations for which an election is not required by this Charter or by law,
no such obligations shall be issued and sold without the approval of the
majority of voters voting on the question at a general or special election.



CHAPTER 8
Public Improvements and Special Assessments



Section 8.01. POWER TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS AND LEVY ASSESSMENTS. The City may
make any type of public improvement not forbidden by law and levy special
assessments to pay all or any part of the cost of such improvements as are of
a local character. The total assessments for any local improvement may not
exceed the cost of the improvement, including all costs and expenses
connected therewith, with interest. No assessment shall exceed the benefits
to the property.



Section 8.02. LOCAL IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE. When the City undertakes any local
improvement to which the state local improvement code applies, it shall
comply with the provisions of that law. The council may by ordinance
prescribe the procedure to be followed in making any other local improvement
and levying assessments therefor.



CHAPTER 9
Eminent Domain



Section 9.01. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY. The City may acquire, by purchase,
gift, condemnation or otherwise, any property, either within or without its
boundaries, that may be needed by the City for any public purpose. In
acquiring property by exercising the power of eminent domain, the City shall
proceed according to M.S. Ch. 117 or other applicable law.



CHAPTER 10
Franchises



Section 10.01. FRANCHISES REQUIRED. No person, firm or corporation shall
place or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures in, over, upon, or
under any street or public place for the purpose of operating a public
utility or for any other purpose, without a franchise therefore from the
City, except where the City’s authority is preempted by state or federal
law; provided, however, that temporary uses such as street vendors, periodic
displays and sales of food, beverages and merchandise, facilities for
short-term public gatherings and similar enterprises shall be regulated by
permit or Council approval as the Council may see fit. A franchise shall be
granted only by ordinance, which shall not be an emergency ordinance. Every
ordinance granting a franchise shall contain all the terms and conditions of
the franchise. The grantee shall bear the costs of publication of the
franchise ordinance and shall make a sufficient deposit with the City
administrator to guarantee publication before the ordinance is passed.



(Ord. 16-758, passed 6-28-2016)



Section 10.02. TERMS. No exclusive or perpetual franchise shall ever be
granted. No franchise for a term exceeding twenty years shall be effective
until approved by a majority of the electors voting thereon, except for
franchises granted for improvements made upon the property of the Hutchinson
Municipal Airport in which case the term of the franchise shall not exceed 99
years.



Section 10.03. PUBLIC HEARING. Except where preempted by state or federal
law, the City may regulate any rates, fares or prices to be charged by any
public utility. Before any franchise ordinance is adopted or any rates,
fares, or prices to be charged by any public utility are fixed by the
council, the council shall hold a public hearing on the matter. Notice of
such hearing shall be published at least once in the official newspaper not
less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.



Section 10.04. POWER OF REGULATION RESERVED. Except where preempted by state
or federal law the council may by ordinance reasonably regulate and control
the exercise of any franchise, including the maximum rates, fares, or prices
to be charged by the grantee. No franchise value shall be included in the
valuation of the grantee’s property in regulating utility rates, fares, or
prices under any applicable law, ordinance, or regulation or in proceedings
for municipal acquisition or in proceedings for municipal acquisition of the
grantee’s property by purchase or eminent domain.



Section 10.05. RENEWALS OR EXTENSIONS. Every renewal or modification of a
franchise, including any existing franchise, shall be granted in the same
manner as a new franchise.



CHAPTER 11
Public Ownership and Operation of Utilities



Section 11.01. CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT. The Hutchinson Utilities Commission of
the City of Hutchinson shall have control and management of the Electric
Plant, the Electric Plant distribution system, the Gas Plant and the Gas
Distribution system in the City of Hutchinson.



Section 11.02. APPOINTMENT AND TERMS. The commission shall consist of five
(5) persons, registered voters of Hutchinson, who shall be appointed by the
council. One of the members may be a member of the city council appointed
annually by the mayor with the consent of the City council, at the first
meeting of the city council in January of each year. After initial
appointments for such terms as are set by the council, a member shall be
appointed every year for a term of 5 years, to fill the place of the member
whose term has expired, except for any city council member appointed to serve
on the Utilities Commission, and in such case, that person shall serve a one
year term subject to reappointment. The commissioners in office at the time
of adoption of this Charter shall continue to serve the term to which they
were previously appointed. Commissioners shall qualify for their office by
taking and subscribing to the oath of office required of members of the
council and filing the same with city administrator. They shall hold office
until their successors are appointed and qualified and vacancies in office
for any cause shall be filled for the balance of the term in which the
vacancy occurs in the same manner as the original appointment is made. No
member shall serve more than two consecutive five-year terms, exclusive of
the fulfillment of an unexpired term, but shall be again eligible for such
service following a break in service of not less than one year. The members
of the commission, excluding the city council member, may receive
compensation for their services as determined by the council.



Section 11.03. ORGANIZATION. The commission shall provide for its own
organization and rules of procedure and annually shall elect a president and
vice-president from among its members who shall perform the usual duties of
those positions, under the direction of the commission. It shall also appoint
a secretary who may or may not be a member of the commission. All monies
received for gas and electric services rendered shall be deposited in a
separate municipal Electric Plant Fund and Natural Gas Division Fund. The
commission shall keep record of the monies (above mentioned) and pay them out
only upon verified orders and upon warrants signed by two members of the
commission.



Section 11.04. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION. The commission shall have full,
absolute and exclusive control of power over the City Electric Plant, the
City Electric Plant distribution system, the City Gas Plant and the City Gas
distribution system. The commission shall buy all materials, supplies and
fuel in accordance with the Charter provisions for purchases and contracts.
It may enter into contracts subject to the same limitations imposed on the
city council, and may sue and be sued in its own name. It shall regulate the
distribution, use and sale of electricity and gas within and without the City
limits, collect for services, and shall fix the rates for all such sales and
services for public and private use, subject to right of the council to veto
any proposed charge and rate by a four-fifths (4/5) vote. Such veto power
shall be exercised, if at all, within 30 days after the council has received
notice of any proposed change in charge and rate. The commission shall have
power and authority to extend, add to, change or modify the electric system
and the gas system, and to do any and all things it may deem necessary and
proper for operation except as by this chapter otherwise restricted or
qualified. The cost of extended service or installation thereof shall in no
case create any general obligation upon the City. It shall employ such
competent help as may be necessary to properly operate the plant, and pay
these employees such compensation as the commission deems proper. The
commission shall not have power to sell, lease, rent or in any way dispose of
or encumber or permit the electric plant or the gas system to come under the
control of any person or corporation whatever. The commission may pledge the
net earnings of the electric plant and/or gas plant and system, after
providing for the payment of all operating and maintenance charges and
setting aside annually an amount sufficient to meet the interest and
principal required of any previously created obligations of the plant, to
secure payment of any previously created obligations of the plant, to secure
payment of any equipment purchased for said plants and systems.



Section 11.05. TRANSFER OF FUNDS. On or before September 1 of each year, the
commission and the city council shall exchange information regarding the
financial resources and financial needs of both the commission and the City,
and shall reach agreement on the amount of surplus utility funds, if any,
which are reasonably available for transfer to the general fund of the City
during the next calendar year. Surplus utility funds reasonably available
shall be transferred to the City general fund.



It shall be mandatory upon the commission to transfer funds from earnings to
the City to meet all interest and support principal required on obligations
of the City incurred by the City in the construction of the gas and electric
plants and systems. Such funds shall not be considered surplus funds. Funds
so turned over to the City by the commission shall, during such time as the
bonded indebtedness remains currently unpaid in connection with construction
of the gas and electric plants and systems, be used solely for the purpose of
retiring such currently unpaid indebtedness.



Section 11.06. BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS. The commission may make and enforce
such reasonable by-laws and regulations as may be necessary to carry into
effect the objectives and purposes of this chapter. All such by-laws and
regulations are to be entered in a book kept for that purpose by the
secretary and signed by the president and secretary.



Section 11.07. REPORTS. The commission shall keep a record of all of its
financial operations and shall furnish monthly to the city council summarized
statements showing receipts, disbursements, and liabilities for such period
of time. The commission shall publish a summarized audited annual statement
in the official City newspaper. Such statement shall be prepared by a
certified public accountant.



Section 11.08. REMOVAL OF COMMISSIONERS. If a commissioner is guilty of
malfeasance or misfeasance in office, has become incapacitated to hold
office, or ceases to be a resident of the City of Hutchinson, and such fact
is brought to the City Council by council investigation or a petition of ten
(10) or more voters of the City of Hutchinson, the commissioner may be
removed from office by a four-fifths (4/5) majority vote of the council. Upon
the filing of any such fact, together with a copy of such charges, such
commissioner shall be notified of the time and place where the council will
meet to consider such charges. Notice shall be given at least ten days before
the meeting, at which time such commissioner shall have the right to be
present and produce testimony and evidence. No member of the commission shall
continue in office after the loss of any qualification required for
appointment to that position.



Section 11.09. SALE OF PUBLIC UTILITY. The public utility owned by the City
shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of by the City unless the full terms
of the proposition of sale or other disposition are embodied in an ordinance
approved by the city council and by a majority of the voters voting thereon
at a general or special municipal election. Approval by the voters as
described herein shall not apply to the sale or other disposition of
component parts of the public utility which are no longer needed for public
utility purposes.



Section 11.10. FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Hutchinson Utilities
Commission shall be the calendar year.



CHAPTER 12
Public Ownership and Operation of Waste Management Facilities and Related
Services



Section 12.01. ESTABLISHMENT. The City has established, and is hereby
authorized to further establish and continue waste management facilities and
ancillary programs including, without limitation, collection, testing,
processing and disposal of mixed municipal solid waste, source separated
waste, recyclable materials, and all other soil amendments for the operation
of resource recovery facilities, biosolids drying facilities, compost
facilities, waste reduction facilities, and similar operations; the mixing,
bagging, blending and incorporating of ingredients reasonably related to the
reuse and resale of recovered waste, or reasonably related to improving the
economic efficiency of waste management facilities and programs and reducing
the cost thereof to the City, the State of Minnesota, and other generators of
waste within Minnesota.



Section 12.02. CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT. The city council, acting through the
city administrator as required by this Charter, shall have control and
management of all waste management facilities and ancillary programs.



Section 12.03. STATUS OF OPERATIONS. The waste management facilities and
programs shall be operated by the City as an enterprise fund in which costs,
including capital costs, are recovered through user fees, gate fees, and sale
of ancillary products and services. Any surplus in the enterprise fund shall
be periodically deposited in the City general fund.



CHAPTER 13
Miscellaneous Provisions



Section 13.01. OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS. The council shall annually designate a
legal newspaper as provided by the laws of Minnesota as its official
newspaper in which shall be published ordinances and other matters required
by law to be so published as well as such other matters as the council may
deem it in the public interest to have published in this manner.



Section 13.02. OATH OF OFFICE. Every elected or appointed officer of the
City, and every member of each board or commission shall, before entering
upon the duties of office, take and subscribe an oath of office in
substantially the following form: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) to
support the constitution of the United States and of the State of Minnesota
and to discharge faithfully the duties devolving upon me as (title of office)
of the City of Hutchinson to the best of my judgment and ability.”



Section 13.03. OFFICIAL BONDS. The mayor, city administrator, and such other
officers or employees of the City as may be specified by ordinance shall
each, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices or
employment, be covered by a surety bond from the City in such form and amount
as may be fixed by the council. Such bonds may be either individual or
blanket bonds in the discretion of the council. They shall be approved by the
city council, and approved as to form by the city attorney, and filed with
the city administrator. The provisions of state laws relating to official
bonds not inconsistent with this Charter shall be complied with. The premiums
on such bonds shall be paid by the City.



(Ord. 13-715, passed 11-26-2013)



Section 13.04. SALE OF REAL PROPERTY. No real property of the City shall be
disposed of except by ordinance. The net cash proceeds of any sale of such
property shall be used as far as possible to retire any outstanding
indebtedness incurred by the City in the purchase, construction, or
improvement of this or other property used for the same public purpose. If
there is no such outstanding indebtedness, the council may by resolution
designate some other public use for the proceeds.



Section 13.05. VACATION OF STREETS. A majority of the council may by
resolution vacate any street, alley or any public grounds within the City.
Such vacation may be made only after published notice and an opportunity for
affected property owners and public to be heard, and upon such further terms
and by such procedure as is prescribed in M.S. § 412.851, and which the
council by resolution may prescribe. A notice of completion of such
proceedings shall be filed with the proper county officers in accordance with
law.



Section 13.06. FINES AND PENALTIES. All fines, forfeitures and penalties
recovered for the violation of any ordinances shall be paid into the City
treasury. Every court or officer receiving such monies, within 30 days
thereafter, shall make return thereof under oath and be entitled to duplicate
receipts for the amounts paid. One of the receipts shall be filed with the
city administrator.



Section 13.07. OFFICIAL INTEREST IN CONTRACTS. Except as otherwise permitted
by law, no officer of the City who is authorized to take part in any manner
in any contract with the City shall voluntarily have a personal financial
interest in or personally benefit from such contract.



Section 13.08. CITY TO SUCCEED TO RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF FORMER CITY. The
City shall succeed to all the property, rights, and privileges, and shall be
subject to all legal obligations of the City under the former Charter.



Section 13.09. EXISTING ORDINANCES. All ordinances and regulations of the
City in force when this Charter takes effect and not inconsistent with this
Charter are continued in full force and effect until amended or repealed.



Section 13.10. PENDING CONDEMNATIONS, IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS. Any
condemnation, improvement, or assessment proceeding in progress when this
Charter takes effect shall be continued and completed under the laws under
which such proceedings were begun. All assessments made by the City prior to
the time when this Charter takes effect shall be collected as if this Charter
had not been adopted.



Section 13.11. ORDINANCES TO MAKE CHARTER EFFECTIVE. The council shall by
ordinance, resolution, or other appropriate action take such steps as may be
necessary to make effective the provisions of this Charter.



Section 13.12. PRESENT OFFICERS CONTINUED. The present officers of the City
shall continue in their respective offices and functions and shall continue
to govern the City under the laws and Charter previously in effect. The
officers shall continue to govern until their normal terms expire and their
successors under this new Charter are elected and qualified.



TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS



   Chapter



      10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY



CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY



Section



   10.01   Title of code



   10.02   Rules of interpretation



   10.03   Application to future ordinances



   10.04   Captions



   10.05   Definitions



   10.06   Severability



   10.07   Reference to other sections



   10.08   Reference to offices



   10.09   Errors and omissions



   10.10   Official time



   10.11   Reasonable time



   10.12   Ordinances repealed



   10.13   Ordinances unaffected



   10.14   Effective date of ordinances



   10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance



   10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code



   10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities



   10.18   Copies of code



   10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference



   10.20   Enforcement



 



   10.99   General penalty



§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.



   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Hutchinson City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”,
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title,
chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as
contained in the code.



   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and
sections are to the components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any
component code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the
“Traffic Code”. Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation
“§” followed by the number, such as “§ 10.01”.



      (2)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the
title, chapter and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only
and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.



(2004 Code, § 10.01)



§ 10.02  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.



   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or
implication required, the same rules of construction, definition and
application shall govern the interpretation of this code as those governing
the interpretation of state law.



   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all
ordinances of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that
construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of
the context of the same ordinance.



      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as
if written “and/or”, whenever the context requires.



      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or
ordinance requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as
well may do as the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the
performance of the act by an authorized agent or deputy.



      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the
masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders;
words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall
include the singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include
the future, if applicable.



      (4)   General term. A general term following specific
enumeration of terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless
expressly so limited.



(2004 Code, § 10.02)



§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.



   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.



(2004 Code, § 10.03)



§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.



   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.



(2004 Code, § 10.04)



§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.



   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to
their technical import.



   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of Hutchinson,
Minnesota, as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or
other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY, when used in this code,
may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.



      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.



      COUNTY. McLeod County, Minnesota.



      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.



      MONTH. A calendar month.



      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All
terms shall mean a pledge taken by the person and administered by an
individual authorized by state law.



      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer,
office, employee, commission or department of the city unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.



      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons,
firm, corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used
in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or
WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or
members thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents
thereof.



      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.



      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.



      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot
write.



      STATE. The State of Minnesota.



      SUBCHAPTER.



         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code
by a heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of
the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter
of the heading.



         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.



      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.



      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.



(2004 Code, § 10.05)



§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.



   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.



(2004 Code, § 10.06)



§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.



   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
that reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject
matter is changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.



(2004 Code, § 10.07)



§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.



   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.



(2004 Code, § 10.08)



§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.



   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the
misspelling of any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to
express the intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words
to which no meaning can be attached; or the use of a word or words when
another word or words was clearly intended to express the intent, the
spelling shall be corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or
substituted as will conform with the manifest intention, and the provisions
shall have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the
text as originally published.



   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.



(2004 Code, § 10.09)



§ 10.10  OFFICIAL TIME.



   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.



(2004 Code, § 10.10)



§ 10.11  REASONABLE TIME.



   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in
a reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME
OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.



   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein
provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.



      (2)   If the last day is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall
be excluded.



(2004 Code, § 10.11)



§ 10.12  ORDINANCES REPEALED.



   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain
all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein
enumerated and embraced.



   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by
this code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
code.



(2004 Code, § 10.12)



§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.



   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.



(2004 Code, § 10.13)



§ 10.14  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.



   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless
otherwise expressly provided.



(2004 Code, § 10.14)



§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.



   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be
repealed or modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an
ordinance thus repealed or modified shall continue in force until the
publication of the ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is
required to give effect to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.



   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous
to its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may
be prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had
continued in force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.



   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or
provision shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to
revive the former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly
provided.



(2004 Code, § 10.15)



§ 10.16  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.



   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter
or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment,
substituted in its place.



   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.



(2004 Code, § 10.16)



§ 10.17  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.



   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the
effective date of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as
provided by those laws.



   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued,
penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this
code. The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had
not been enacted.



   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had
not been enacted.



(2004 Code, § 10.17)



§ 10.18  COPIES OF CODE.



   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a
reasonable charge.



(2004 Code, § 10.18)



§ 10.19  ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.



   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or
referenced in this code are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this code was adopted, unless there is
clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.



(2004 Code, § 10.19)



§ 10.20  ENFORCEMENT.



   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department,
the County Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce
any provision of this code.



   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from
time to time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code have the authority to administer and
enforce the provisions specified. All and any person or persons designated by
the Clerk may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or continued detention to
enforce any provision of the code.



   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect
or otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.



   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
a premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue
the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable
cause does not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular
property.



   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city
officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for
termination of any and all permits, licenses or city service to the property.
Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident or other person
in control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk’s decision to
the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.



   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
authority of the city to enter private property in urgent emergency
situations where there is an imminent danger in order to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.



(2004 Code, § 10.20)



§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.



   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90
days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.



   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which
is designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of
a petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense
which is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than
$300.



   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor,
the costs of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.



   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation.



   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if
any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.



(2004 Code, § 10.99)



TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION



   Chapter



      30.   CITY GOVERNMENT



      31.   ORGANIZATIONS



      32.   CITY POLICIES



      33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT



      34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION



CHAPTER 30:  CITY GOVERNMENT



Section




General Provisions




   30.01   Authority and purpose



   30.02   Absentee Ballot Counting Board



   30.03   Election precinct boundaries




City Council; Meetings




   30.15   Council meetings; time and place



   30.16   Special meetings



   30.17   Regular meeting procedure



   30.18   Council procedure at regular meeting




City Officials




   30.30   City Administrator



   30.31   Finance Officer



   30.32   Interim emergency succession



   30.33   Salaries of Mayor and Council members



   30.34   Code of ethics




GENERAL PROVISIONS




§ 30.01  AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.



   Pursuant to authority granted by the charter, this chapter of the city
code is enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good
order of the city by and through the Council.



(2004 Code, § 30.01)



§ 30.02  ABSENTEE BALLOT COUNTING BOARD.



   The Council hereby authorizes an Absentee Ballot Counting Board and
further authorizes the election judges of that Board to receive, examine and
validate absentee ballots. The further duties of the Board shall be those
provided by statute.



(2004 Code, § 30.02)



§ 30.03  ELECTION PRECINCT BOUNDARIES.



   (A)   (1)   In accordance with M.S. § 204B.14, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city does hereby adopt new election precincts,
identified as Precincts 1, 2 and 3, specifically described as:



         (a)   Precinct 1 of the city shall include all that
territory of the city lying east of the centerline of Highway 15 with all
lands hereafter annexed lying east of the above designated ward boundary
shall be included in Precinct 1;



         (b)   The Second Precinct shall include all that
territory of the city lying west of Highway 15 (Main Street) and north of the
following described line: beginning at the intersection of Main Street and
Milwaukee Avenue SW and continuing along the centerline of Milwaukee Avenue
SW in a westerly direction to the intersection of Milwaukee Avenue SW and
Lynn Road SW and continuing in a northerly direction along the centerline of
Lynn Road SW to the intersection of Lynn Road SW and Juul Road SW, thence
west along the centerline of Juul Road SW to the intersection of Juul Road SW
and Dale Street SW, thence northeasterly along the centerline of Dale Street
SW to the intersection of Dale Street SW and Second Avenue SW thence
proceeding north to the south bank of the Crow River and thence along the
south bank of the Crow River to a point intersecting with the westerly
boundary of the city; lands hereinafter annexed lying north and west of the
above described precinct boundary shall be included in Precinct 2; and



         (c)   The Third Precinct shall include all that
territory of the City of Hutchinson lying west of Highway 15 (Main Street)
and south of the following described line: beginning at the intersection of
Main Street and Milwaukee Avenue SW and continuing along the centerline of
Milwaukee Avenue SW in a westerly direction to the intersection of Milwaukee
Avenue SW and Lynn Road SW and continuing in a northerly direction along the
centerline of Lynn Road SW to the intersection of Lynn Road SW and Juul Road
SW, thence west along the centerline of Juul Road SW to the intersection of
Juul Road SW and Dale Street SW, thence northeasterly along the centerline of
Dale Street SW to the intersection of Dale Street SW and Second Avenue SW,
thence proceeding north to the south bank of the Crow River and thence along
the south bank of the Crow River to a point intersecting with the westerly
boundary of the city; lands hereinafter annexed lying south and west of the
above described precinct boundary shall be included in Precinct 3.



      (2)   They are as also shown on the map attached to Ord.
12-0686, marked as “Exhibit A” thereto and incorporated as if fully set
out herein.



   (B)   The polling place for Precinct 1, Precinct 2 and Precinct 3 in
the city is the Recreation Center located at 900 Harrington Street SW,
Hutchinson, Minnesota 55350.



(2004 Code, § 30.03)  (Ord. 02-311, passed 4-23-2002; Ord. 12-0686, passed
3-27-2012)



CITY COUNCIL; MEETINGS



§ 30.15  COUNCIL MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.



   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the Council Chambers
on the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month at 5:30 p.m. Unless otherwise
stated in the notice of the meeting, special and adjourned meetings shall
also be in the Council Chambers. In the event that any regular meeting falls
on a holiday, then the meeting shall be rescheduled by the Council. No
Council meeting shall be conducted after 6:00 p.m. on the day of a political
party precinct caucus.



(2004 Code, § 30.15)  (Ord. 95-141, passed 4-11-1995)



§ 30.16  SPECIAL MEETINGS.



   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or by any
three other members of the Council by writing filed with the City
Administrator stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting. Notice of a
special meeting shall be given by the City Administrator to each member of
the Council by mailing a copy of that filing to all members who did not sign
or issue the call at least four days prior to the time stated therein, or by
personal service at least 72 hours prior to the projected time of meeting.
Special meetings may be held without prior written notice to the Council when
all Council members are present at the meeting or consent thereto in writing.
Any such consent shall be filed with the City Administrator prior to the
beginning of the meeting. Any special meeting attended by all Council members
shall be a valid meeting for the transaction of any business that may come
before the meeting. Meetings of the Council which are adjourned from time to
time shall not be subject to the foregoing notice requirements; nor shall
special meetings which, in the judgment of the Council, require immediate
consideration to meet an emergency require the notice described above, but
may be called by telephone communication or any other expeditious means.
Notice to the public and to news media shall be given as required by statute.



(2004 Code, § 30.16)



§ 30.17  REGULAR MEETING PROCEDURE.



   (A)   The City Administrator shall prepare the following items:



      (1)   An agenda for the forthcoming meeting;



      (2)   A copy of all minutes to be considered;



      (3)   Copies of other proposals, communications or other
documents as the City Administrator deems necessary or proper for advance
consideration by the Council;



      (4)   A compiled list of all claimants who have filed verified
accounts claiming payment for goods or services rendered the city during the
preceding month, this list to be called the claim report and bearing headings
“claimant”, “purpose” and “amount”; and



      (5)   Miscellaneous communications from the City Administrator
on administrative activities of the preceding month.



   (B)   The City Administrator shall forthwith cause to be mailed or
delivered to each member of the Council copies of all the above listed
documents.



   (C)   Robert’s Rules of Order (Newly Revised) shall govern all
Council meetings as to procedural matters not set forth in the charter or
city code.



(2004 Code, § 30.17)  (Ord. 02-326, passed 12-23-2002)



§ 30.18  COUNCIL PROCEDURE AT REGULAR MEETING.



   (A)   (1)   The City Administrator shall prepare the following
items:



         (a)   An agenda for the forthcoming meeting;



         (b)   A copy of all minutes to be considered;



         (c)   Copies of such other proposals, communications or
other documents as the City Administrator deems necessary or proper for
advance consideration by the Council;



         (d)   A compiled list of all claimants who have filed
verified accounts claiming payment for goods or services rendered the city
during the preceding month, such list to be called the “Claim Report” and
bearing headings “claimant”, “purpose” and “amount”; and



         (e)   Miscellaneous communications from the City
Administrator for administrative activities of the preceding month.



      (2)   The City Administrator shall forthwith cause to be
mailed or delivered to each member of the Council copies of all said
documents. Robert’s Rules of Order (Newly Revised) shall govern all Council
meetings as to procedural matters not set forth in the charter or city code.
The order of business at regular meetings shall be as follows:



         (a)   Call to order;



         (b)   Invocation;



         (c)   Pledge of Allegiance;



         (d)   Recognition of gifts, donations and community
service to the city;



         (e)   Public comments;



         (f)   Minutes;



         (g)   Consent agenda;



         (h)   Public hearings;



         (i)   Communications, requests and petitions;



         (j)   Unfinished business;



         (k)   New business;



         (l)   Governance;



         (m)   Miscellaneous; and



         (n)   Adjournment.



   (B)   Matters inappropriate for consideration at a meeting, or not
in the order specified, shall not be considered, except:



      (1)   With the unanimous consent of the members of the
Council; or



      (2)   Scheduled public hearings or bid lettings at the time
stated in the notice.



(2004 Code, § 30.18)  (Ord. 02-326, passed 12-23-2002; Ord. 07-0489, passed
12-27-2007; Ord. 08-0517, passed 11-12-2008; Ord. 11-0675, passed 8-9-2011)




CITY OFFICIALS




§ 30.30  CITY ADMINISTRATOR.



   (A)   Purchases by the City Administrator. The City Administrator is
hereby authorized to make purchases and enter into contracts where the amount
of the contract is estimated to be $50,000 or less. The contract may be made
either upon quotation or in the open market, in the discretion of the City
Administrator in accordance with state law. If the contract is made upon
quotation, it shall be based, so far as practicable, on at least two
quotations which shall be kept on file for a period of at least one year
after their receipt. The City Administrator may delegate authority to enter
into contracts to individual directors where the amount of the contract is
estimated to be $2,000 or less.



   (B)   Duties of the City Clerk. The City Administrator shall perform
all statutory duties of the City Clerk.



(2004 Code, § 30.30)  (Ord. 96-173, passed 9-10-1996; Ord. 08-0509, passed
9-10-2008)



§ 30.31  FINANCE OFFICER.



   (A)   Position created. The position of Finance Officer is hereby
created.



   (B)   Delegation of duties. All of the bookkeeping duties of the
City Administrator are hereby delegated to the Finance Officer. The Finance
Officer shall be the Deputy City Clerk and perform all of the statutory
duties of the City Clerk during the absence of the City Administrator.



   (C)   Bond. The Finance Officer shall furnish a fidelity bond
conditioned on the faithful exercise of his or her duties. In lieu of this
individual bond, the Council may provide for a blanket bond, furnished by a
surety company authorized to transact business in the state, and covering the
position and duties of the Finance Officer. Premiums on either of these bonds
shall be paid from city funds.



(2004 Code, § 30.31)



§ 30.32  INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION.



   (A)   Purpose. Due to the existing possibility of a nuclear attack
or a natural disaster requiring a declaration of a state of emergency, it is
found urgent and necessary to ensure the continuity of duly elected and
lawful leadership of the city to provide for the continuity of the government
and the emergency interim succession of key governmental officials by
providing a method for temporary emergency appointments to their offices.



   (B)   Succession to local offices. In the event of a nuclear attack
upon the United States or a natural disaster affecting the vicinity of the
city, the Mayor, Council and City Administrator shall be forthwith notified
by any one of these persons and by any means available to gather at the City
Hall. In the event that safety or convenience dictate, an alternative place
of meeting may be designated. Those gathered shall proceed as follows.



      (1)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of
number, they shall elect a Chair and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.



      (2)   They shall review and record the specific facts relating
to the nuclear attack or natural disaster and injuries to persons or damage
to property already done, or the imminence thereof.



      (3)   They may, based on these facts, declare a state of
emergency.



      (4)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of
number, they shall fill all positions on the Council (including the Office of
Mayor), of those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are
unable to be present.



      (5)   These interim successors shall serve until that time
when the duly elected official is again available and returns to his or her
position, or the state of emergency has passed and a successor is designated
and qualifies as required by law, whichever shall occur first.



   (C)   Duties of the Interim Emergency Council. The Interim Emergency
Council shall exercise the powers and duties of its offices and appoint other
key government officials to serve during the emergency.



(2004 Code, § 30.32)



§ 30.33  SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.



   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 415.11, as it may be
amended from time to time, salaries shall be set by ordinance. No change in
salary shall take effect until after the next succeeding municipal election.



(2004 Code, § 30.33)  (Ord. 765, passed 1-1-1988; Ord. 89-10, passed
11-2-1989; Ord. 91-44, passed 10-22-1991; Ord. 93-94, passed 10-26-1993; Ord.
04-399, passed 1-11-2005; Ord. 16-754, passed 3-8-2016)



§ 30.34  CODE OF ETHICS.



   (A)   Purpose.



      (1)   It is imperative that all persons acting in the public
service not only maintain the highest possible standards of ethical conduct
in the transaction of public business, but that those standards be clearly
defined and known to the public as well as the person acting in public
service.



      (2)   The proper operation of democratic government requires
that elected officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the
people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in the proper channels
of the government structure; that public office not be used for personal
gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government.
In recognition of these goals, there is hereby established a code of ethics
for all elected officials whether elected or appointed. The purpose of the
code of ethics is to establish ethical standards of conduct for all elected
officials by setting forth those types of activities that are incompatible
with the best interests of the city.



   (B)   Responsibilities of public office. Elected officials are
agents of public purpose and hold office for the benefit of the public. They
are bound to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the state and to carry out impartially the laws of the
nation, state and the municipality and thus to foster respect for all
government. They are bound to observe in their official acts the highest
standards of morality and to discharge faithfully the duties of their offices.



   (C)   Dedicated service.



      (1)   All officials of the city shall be dedicated to
fulfilling their responsibilities of office described herein. They shall be
dedicated to the public purpose and all programs developed by them shall be
in the community interest.



      (2)   Elected officials shall not exceed their authority or
breach the law or ask others to do so and they shall work in full cooperation
with other public officials unless prohibited from so doing by law or by
officially recognized confidentiality of their work.



   (D)   Avoidance of conflict of interest and appearance of
impropriety. No person covered by this code of ethics shall use his or her
office or position or otherwise act in any manner which would give the
appearance of or result in any impropriety or conflict of interest.



   (E)   Scope. The provisions of this code of ethics shall be
applicable to the members of the City Council.



   (F)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Any treatment by an official, of a matter
in which the official has an interest, whether the interest does or does not
result in a direct or indirect benefit to the official.



      DIRECT SUBSIDY. Any and only direct financial support by the
city, any grant or gift by the city, any taxation benefits granted by the
city including tax increment financing or forgiveness of taxes, special
assessments, interest or penalties.



      INTEREST. Having a personal or financial relationship to a
matter, including, but not limited to, association in any capacity, other
than as a customer, with a person, partnership, firm or corporation or other
entity doing business with the city.



      MATTER. Anything upon which an elected official of the city,
individually or in concert with other elected officials, is empowered to act.



      OFFICIAL or ELECTED OFFICIAL. Any person who has been elected to
the City Council and is authorized to vote or take other official action.



   (G)   Prohibited conduct.



      (1)   No person covered by this code of ethics may use public
funds, public work time, personnel, facilities or equipment for private gain
or for political campaign activities unless that use is authorized or
required by law.



      (2)   No person covered by this code of ethics shall request
or permit the use of city owned vehicles, equipment, machinery or property
for personal convenience or profit, except when those services are available
to the public generally or are provided as municipal policy for the use of
those persons in the conduct of official business.



      (3)   No person covered by this code of ethics shall directly
or indirectly solicit, accept or receive any compensation, gift, reward or
gratuity with a fair market value of $50 or more, whether in the form of
money, services, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, promise or any
other form in connection with any matter or proceeding connected with or
related to the duties of his or her office, except as may otherwise be
provided by law.



      (4)   No person covered by this code of ethics who is not
seeking re-election or otherwise intends to leave his or her elected office,
shall seek reimbursement for travel and transportation expenses from the city
regardless of whether the expenses are directly or indirectly related to
official city business. Failure to comply with appropriate deadlines for
election filings or failure to win re-election, shall create a rebuttable
presumption that a person is not seeking re-election or otherwise intends to
leave his or her elected office.



      (5)   No person covered by this code of ethics, within one
year of his or her service on the City Council, shall knowingly serve as an
employee, consultant or owner of any business, firm or organization which
business, firm or organization has been directly subsidized by the city
unless the former City Council member did not participate personally or
substantially as an elected official in any decisions, approvals,
disapprovals, recommendations, investigation or otherwise, while serving on
the City Council.



      (6)   No person covered by this code of ethics, within one
year of his or her service as a Council member, shall contract to provide
goods or services to the city. This prohibition shall extend to any business,
firm or organization in which the former Council member holds at least a 50%
ownership interest. This prohibition shall not extend, however, to any
contract competitively bid pursuant to M.S. § 471.345(1) through 471.345(3),
1988 edition, as they may be amended from time to time, or its successor
statute and further shall not apply to any contract which the city, by its
actions, mandates will be subject to the provisions of M.S. § 471.345, as it
may be amended from time to time.



   (H)   Violations.



      (1)   Upon the written complaint of any person alleging
violation of division (G) above, the City Council may hold a hearing at which
hearing the person who is alleged to have violated division (G) above shall
have the opportunity to respond to the allegations. If, after hearing and
after stating on the record the reasons for action, the City Council may take
any lawful action it deems appropriate, including but not limited to,
referring the matter for criminal prosecution. No City Council member alleged
to have violated division (G) above shall participate in the deliberation or
voting of the City Council.



      (2)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of division
(G) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Only violations of division (G)
above shall be considered misdemeanors.



(2004 Code, § 30.34)  (Ord. 89-15, passed 1-23-1990)  Penalty, see § 10.99



CHAPTER 31:  ORGANIZATIONS



Section




Departments




   31.01   Organization and authority



   31.02   Police Department



   31.03   Fire Department



   31.04   Legal Department



   31.05   Finance Department



   31.06   Building Department



   31.07   Engineering Department



   31.08   Water and Wastewater Department



   31.09   Parks, Recreation and Forestry Department




Boards and Commissions




   31.20   Organization and appointment



   31.21   Planning Commission



   31.22   Property Maintenance Code Board of Appeals



   31.23   Parks, Recreation and Community Education Advisory Board



   31.24   Senior Advisory Board



   31.25   Library Board



   31.26   City Tree Board



   31.27   Airport Commission



   31.28   Police Civil Service Commission



   31.29   Public Arts Commission



   31.30   Resource Allocation Board



   31.31   Creekside Renewables Advisory Board



Cross-reference:



   Absentee Ballot Counting Board, see § 30.02



   City Council, see Ch. 30



DEPARTMENTS



§ 31.01  ORGANIZATION AND AUTHORITY.



   (A)   Control. All departments of the city are under the overall
control of the City Administrator. Heads of all departments are responsible
to the City Administrator and subject to his or her supervision and
direction, except as otherwise provided herein.



   (B)   Appointment. Except as otherwise provided, all department
heads and employees shall be appointed by the City Administrator. All
appointments shall be for an indeterminate term and subject to any applicable
civil service regulations in effect in the city.



   (C)   Compensation. All wages and salaries shall be fixed or
determined, or delegated to the City Administrator for determination, by the
Council.



   (D)   Table of organization; lines of responsibility. The Council
may by resolution adopt, amend and from time to time revise, a table of
organization and define lines of responsibility and authority for the
efficient governmental organization of the city. The Council may delegate the
responsibility for compliance with this division (D) to the City
Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 31.01)



§ 31.02  POLICE DEPARTMENT.



   (A)   A Police Department is hereby established. The head of this
Department shall be known as the Chief of Police, and the number of
additional members and employees of the Police Department shall be determined
by the Council and may be changed from time to time. The Mayor shall have,
without the approval of the Council, authority to appoint additional members
of the Police Department for temporary duty when, in his or her judgment, an
emergency exists, for the preservation of life or property.



   (B)   The Chief of Police and all authorized members of the Police
Department shall have the powers and authority of police officers generally
and shall perform duties as are required of them by the Council or by law.
The Chief of Police shall have overall supervision and management of the
Police Department and custody of all property used and maintained for the
purposes of this Department. The Chief of Police shall make and file reports
as may be required by the City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 31.02)



§ 31.03  FIRE DEPARTMENT.



   (A)   A Fire Department is hereby established. The size and
composition (including, but not limited to, a determination as to permanent
and volunteer members) shall be established by resolution of the Council, and
may be changed from time to time by a subsequent resolution. The Council
shall also establish, and from time to time revise and amend, written rules
and regulations of the Department including, but not limited to, its internal
structural organization and compensation, a copy of which shall be
distributed to each of its members whenever established, revised or amended.



   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have general
supervision of the Fire Department and custody of all property used and
maintained for the purposes of this Department. He or she shall see that the
same are kept in proper order and that all rules and regulations and all
provisions of the laws of the state and ordinances of the city relative to a
Fire Department and to prevention and extinguishment of fires are duly
observed. He or she shall supervise the preservation of all property
endangered by fire and shall control and direct all persons engaged in
preserving that property. In case of the absence or disability of the Chief
for any cause, the Assistant Chief shall exercise all powers, perform all the
duties and be subject to all the responsibilities of the Chief. The Chief of
the Fire Department shall make and file reports as may be requested by the
City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 31.03)



§ 31.04  LEGAL DEPARTMENT.



   A Legal Department is hereby established. The Council shall appoint a
City Attorney, who shall be head of the Legal Department, together with
assistants as may be necessary, who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Council. The City Attorney shall perform duties as are required of him or her
by law or referred to him or her by the Council. It shall be the official
duty of the City Attorney to act as revisor of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 31.04)



§ 31.05  FINANCE DEPARTMENT.



   A Finance Department is hereby established. The head of this Department
shall be the Finance Officer. It is the duty of the Finance Officer to
maintain complete and accurate records as to all financial matters of the
city. He or she shall be responsible for drafting the annual budget and
preparing budgetary and financial reports as the Council may from time to
time require.



(2004 Code, § 31.05)



§ 31.06  BUILDING DEPARTMENT.



   A Building Department is hereby established. The head of the Building
Department shall be the Building Official (referred to in the State Building
Code as the “Administrative Authority”), together with assistants and
staff members as may be authorized from time to time by the Council. It shall
be the duty and power of the Building Official to carry out the provisions of
the State Building Code and the provisions of the city code relating to
construction. The Building Official shall submit a periodic report to the
Council covering the work of this Department for intervals required by the
Council.



(2004 Code, § 31.06)



§ 31.07  ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.



   An Engineering Department is hereby established. The head of this
Department shall be the City Engineer, who shall perform duties as are
required of him or her, or referred to him or her, by the City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 31.07)



§ 31.08  WATER AND WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT.



   A Water and Wastewater Department is hereby established. The head of
this Department shall be the Director of Water and Wastewater Operations. The
water and wastewater utilities shall be under the Director’s supervision
and control.



(2004 Code, § 31.08)



§ 31.09  PARKS, RECREATION AND FORESTRY DEPARTMENT.



   A Parks, Recreation and Forestry Department is hereby established. The
head of this Department shall be the Director of Parks, Recreation and
Forestry. All park, recreational and forestry activities shall be under the
direct supervision of the Director and he or she shall be responsible for and
have custody of all property of this Department.



(2004 Code, § 31.09)




BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS




§ 31.20  ORGANIZATION AND APPOINTMENT.



   (A)   All board and commission appointments authorized by ordinance
or resolution shall be made by the Mayor, and each appointment confirmed by
the Council. The term of each appointee shall be established and stated at
the time of his or her appointment. Except for the Economic Development
Authority, no board or commission member shall be appointed to more than two
consecutive full terms, exclusive of the fulfillment of an unexpired term or
partial term previously served, but shall again be eligible for service
following a break in service of not less than one year. New appointees shall
assume office on the first day of the first month following their appointment
and qualification, or on the first day of the first month following the
expiration of the prior term and qualification, whichever shall occur last;
provided, however, that, all appointees to boards and commissions shall hold
office until their successor is appointed and qualified. All vacancies shall
be filled in the same manner as for an expired term, but the appointment
shall be only for the unexpired term.



   (B)   All appointed board and commission members shall serve without
remuneration, but may be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in
the performance of their duties when those expenses have been authorized by
the Council before they were incurred.



   (C)   The chair and the secretary shall be chosen from and by the
board or commission membership annually to serve for one year; provided,
however, that, no chair shall be elected who has not completed at least one
year as a member of the board or commission.



   (D)   Any board or commission member may be removed by a four-fifths
majority vote of the Council for misfeasance, malfeasance or non-feasance in
office and his or her position filled as any other vacancy.



   (E)   Each board and commission shall hold its regular meeting at a
time established by it.



   (F)   Except as otherwise provided, this section shall apply to all
boards and commissions.



   (G)   All ex-officio members to city boards and commissions shall be
non-voting members of the board or commission.



(2004 Code, § 31.20)  (Ord. 09-0524, passed 4-28-2009; Ord. 12-0691, passed
7-10-2012)



§ 31.21  PLANNING COMMISSION.



   (A)   Establishment and composition.



      (1)   A Planning Commission is hereby established.



      (2)   The Planning Commission shall be composed of seven
members of which six shall be residents of the city, but not members of a
public body, who shall serve staggered five-year terms, and one member of the
Council shall be appointed by the Mayor to serve terms expiring on March 31
of each year.



      (3)   The City Attorney shall be an ex-officio member.



   (B)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have all the
powers and duties defined or granted in the state statutes and the city code
relating to planning, zoning and subdivision regulation and shall act in an
advisory capacity to the Council in all of these areas.



(2004 Code, § 31.21)  (Ord. 97-189, passed 4-8-1997; Ord. 97-204, passed
8-26-1997; Ord. 12-0691, passed 7-10-2012)



§ 31.22  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE BOARD OF APPEALS.



   (A)   Establishment and composition. A A Property Maintenance Code
Board of Appeals is hereby established. The Board of Appeals shall consist of
a minimum of three members who are qualified by experience and training to
pass on matters pertaining to property maintenance and who are not employees
of the jurisdiction. The Code Official shall be an ex-officio member but
shall have no vote on an matter before the Board. The Board shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority, and shall serve staggered and
overlapping terms.



   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board shall have all of the powers and
duties set forth in the International Property Maintenance Code.



(2004 Code, § 31.23)



§ 31.23  PARKS, RECREATION AND COMMUNITY EDUCATION ADVISORY BOARD.



   (A)   Establishment and composition.



      (1)   A Parks, Recreation and Community Education Advisory
Board is hereby established under the Joint Powers Agreement entered into on
9-1-1993, between the city and the Independent School District No. 423, in
this county. The Board shall be composed of seven representatives from the
community at large, one representative from the School Board and one
representative from the City Council.



      (2)   With the exception of the School Board and City Council
representative, all members shall be jointly appointed by the Mayor and the
School Board President, with the consent of the respective boards and
Council, and shall serve staggered three-year terms.



   (B)   Duties. The Board shall study and determine the park,
recreational and community education needs of the city and make
recommendations to the City Administrator relating thereto and shall submit
an annual operating budget to the City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 31.24)  (Ord. 93-96, passed 12-28-1993; Ord. 12-0691, passed
7-10-2012)



§ 31.24  SENIOR ADVISORY BOARD.



   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Senior Advisory Board is
hereby established. The Board shall be composed of seven members who shall
serve staggered three-year terms. The Mayor may, from time to time, appoint
ex-officio members to serve in an advisory capacity to the Board, and these
members shall serve at the discretion of the Mayor.



   (B)   Duties. The Board shall advise the Parks, Recreation and
Community Education Board and staff concerning management and use of the
multi-purpose senior center, and shall develop and maintain a management plan
which provides opportunity for all senior-related activities to flourish.



(2004 Code, § 31.25)



§ 31.25  LIBRARY BOARD.



   A Library Board is hereby established. The Library Board shall consist
of seven members, six of whom shall be residents of the city and serve
staggered three-year terms and one of whom shall be a member of the Council
and designated by the Council.



(2004 Code, § 31.26)  (Ord. 95-153, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 12-0691, passed
7-10-2012)



§ 31.26  CITY TREE BOARD.



   (A)   Establishment and composition. A City Tree Board is hereby
established. The Board shall be composed of five members, four of whom shall
serve staggered three-year terms and one of whom shall be a member of the
Council and designated by the Council. The Natural Resource Coordinator, or
equivalent position, shall serve as an ex-officio member.



   (B)   Duties.



      (1)   The Board shall study, investigate, counsel and directly
advise in the administration of a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in
parks, along streets and in other public areas. It shall, when requested by
the Council, consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon
any special matter or question coming within the scope of its work, and shall
submit to the Parks, Recreation and Community Education Board annually the
current and future needs of the city in regards to trees and shrubs within
the parks, streets and other public areas, together with an estimate of the
cost thereof. Any recommendation of the Board submitted to the Parks,
Recreation and Community Education Board in writing, which requires action of
the Council to carry it out, shall be submitted by the City Administrator to
the Council for its consideration.



      (2)   Upon the final disposition thereof, the City
Administrator shall promptly advise the Board of the action taken thereon.



(2004 Code, § 31.27)  (Ord. 12-0691, passed 7-10-2012)



§ 31.27  AIRPORT COMMISSION.



   (A)   Establishment and composition. An Airport Commission is hereby
established. The Commission shall be composed of six members to serve
staggered three-year terms, one of which shall be a member of the Council
designated by the Council.



   (B)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall advise the Council in
all matters dealing with the airport and its operation. It shall recommend an
annual operating budget, report on the adequacy of facilities, recommend
capital improvements and serve as a forum for others to express their views
on subjects relating to the airport and its operation.



(2004 Code, § 31.28)  (Ord. 12-699, passed 12-11-2012; Ord. 15-0743, passed
6-9-2015)



§ 31.28  POLICE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.



   (A)   Establishment and composition. The establishment of a Police
Civil Service Commission, composed of three members, is hereby ratified. Its
members shall serve three-year staggered terms. Appointments to the
Commission shall be made by the Council at its first meeting in May of each
calendar year.



   (B)   State statute adopted. The adoption by reference of M.S. §§
419.01 through 419.18, as they may be amended from time to time, is hereby
ratified.



   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. The Commission shall continue to
have authority to administer its activities with all of the powers and duties
set forth in the statutory sections cited herein.



(2004 Code, § 31.29)



§ 31.29  PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION.



   (A)   Establishment. A Public Arts Commission is hereby established.



   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this section, PUBLIC ART is hereby
defined as:



      (1)   Within commercial zoning districts, physical artwork
which is viewable by the general public, whether on public or private land or
buildings, whether owned by an individual, legal business entity or the city;
and



      (2)   Physical artwork which is viewable by the general public
installed on land owned by the city.



   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the Public Arts Commission shall
include, but not be limited to:



      (1)   Establishing standards and guidelines for donations of
public art to the city;



      (2)   Determining the process and standards of accepting or
declining gifts or installations of public art;



      (3)   Finding and evaluating funding sources for public arts
projects;



      (4)   Establishing the procedure and funding for the
maintenance of public art;



      (5)   Establishing guidelines for the branding, naming and
placard placement on public art;



      (6)   Ensuring that obsolete public art is properly disposed
of; and



      (7)   Providing forums and hearings to discuss public arts
and/or architectural influences of projects to determine and make
recommendations about public arts projects to the City Council.



   (D)   Composition. The Commission shall be composed of seven
members, six of whom shall serve staggered three-year terms and one of whom
shall be a member of the City Council. Commission members shall be appointed
by the Mayor with Council approval. The Director of Planning/Zoning/ Building
and the Director of Parks/Recreation/Community Education shall be ex-officio
members.



   (E)   Duties.



      (1)   The Public Arts Commission shall act in an adversary
capacity to the City Council for the city and shall make recommendations to
the City Council on issues regarding public art within the city limits.



      (2)   The Public Arts Commission may develop and implement
policies and procedures, as necessary, with approval by the City Council, to
meet the purpose and objectives of the Commission.



      (3)   The Public Arts Commission shall review all projects
that meet any of the following criteria, in accordance with its written
policies and procedures:



         (a)   City initiated public arts projects; whether on
city parkland, public or private property that meet the definition of public
art;



         (b)   Gifts of public art offered to the city;



         (c)   Private arts projects that require a conditional
use permit, variance, franchise agreement or other action requiring approval
of the City Council;



         (d)   Public art, as defined in division (B) above, that
requires maintenance or restoration whether owned by the city or not;



         (e)   City improvement or facility projects that may
include public art;



         (f)   Highly visible private art, when requested by the
owner; and



         (g)   Other arts-related projects, as directed by the
City Council.



      (4)   Applications for projects, or requests to be on the
meeting agenda, should be submitted to the Public Arts Commission seven days
prior to the date of regularly scheduled Commission meetings. Projects must
be submitted on the form specified in the Commission’s policies and
procedures.



   (F)   Funding. Funds for construction or maintenance of public arts
projects shall be held by the city in accounts dedicated for public arts use.



(2004 Code, § 31.31)  (Ord. 06-0431, passed 3-14-2006; Ord. 07-0464, passed
7-10-2007; Ord. 08-0520, passed 12-23-2008; Ord. 09-0538, passed 12-22-2009)



§ 31.30  RESOURCE ALLOCATION BOARD.



   (A)   Establishment. A Resource Allocation Board is hereby
established.



   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the Resource Allocation Board shall
include, but not be limited to:



      (1)   Identify capital projects and other major purchases to
be made by the city;



      (2)   Evaluate the viability of the projects;



      (3)   Establish the priority of city projects and purchases;
and



      (4)   Examine and identify the funding sources, including
bonding, for projects.



   (C)   Composition. The Commission shall be composed as follows: the
Mayor and one other Council member as appointed by the Council, the City
Engineer, the City Finance Director and the City Administrator.



   (D)   Duties.



      (1)   The Resource Allocation Board shall act in an advisory
capacity to the City Council for the city and shall make recommendations to
the City Council on issues regarding the expenditure of city funds on capital
projects.



      (2)   The Resource Allocation Board may develop and implement
policies and procedures, as necessary, to meet the purpose and objectives of
the Board.



(2004 Code, § 31.32)  (Ord. 09-0530, passed 5-26-2009)



§ 31.31  CREEKSIDE RENEWABLES ADVISORY BOARD.



   (A)   Establishment. A Creekside Renewables Advisory Board is hereby
established.



   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the Creekside Renewables Advisory
Board shall include, but is not limited to:



      (1)   Advising the City Council on topics concerning the
operation of any city-owned organics processing facility and development for
other renewable products to create a self-sustainable community;



      (2)   Providing input to city staff and the City Council as to
the continued use and environmental-friendly manufacturing of compost and
other products that would otherwise be unused waste materials;



      (3)   Developing Creekside facility into an energy-sustainable
facility that will serve as a model throughout the community;



      (4)   Acting as a liaison between the city and those
neighboring any process facility(ies) to address questions or concerns about
Creekside’s facility or processing operations.



   (C)   Appointment and Board composition.



      (1)   The Board shall be composed of seven members appointed
by the Mayor, subject to ratification by the City Council. The members shall
include one City Council member and six citizen members. If possible, the
citizen members should include persons representing the area surrounding the
Creekside facility, the Hutchinson business/manufacturing sector and
Creekside’s customer base.



      (2)   Citizen member positions shall be designated as
“Member 1”, “Member 2”, “Member 3”, “Member 4”, “Member
5” and “Member 6”. The initial appointment for Member 1 shall be for
one year, Members 2 and 3 for two years and Members 4, 5 and 6 for three
years. Thereafter, citizen members shall be appointed for three-year terms.
The City Council member shall serve a one-year term and shall be appointed or
reappointed annually.



      (3)   No Board member shall be appointed to more than two
consecutive full terms, exclusive of the fulfillment of an unexpired term or
partial term previously served, but shall again be eligible for service
following a break in service of not less than one year. New appointees shall
assume office on the first day of the first month following their appointment
and qualification, or on the first day of the first month following the
expiration of the prior term and qualification, whichever shall occur last;
provided, however, that, all appointees to the Board shall hold office until
their successor is appointed and qualified. All vacancies shall be filled in
the same manner as for an expired term, but the appointment shall be only for
the unexpired term.



      (4)   The City Administrator and Compost Facility Manager
shall be ex-officio members.



   (D)   Duties. The Creekside Renewables Advisory Board shall act in
an advisory capacity to the City Council for the city and may make
recommendations to the City Council regarding organics processing and other
subjects related to the committee’s stated purpose outlined above.



(2004 Code, § 31.33)  (Ord. 10-0551, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 10-0660, passed
10-12-2010)



CHAPTER 32:  CITY POLICIES



Section




General Provisions




   32.01   Facsimile signatures



   32.02   Accounts, claims or demands



   32.03   Deferment of special assessments



   32.04   Expenditures by petitioners




Franchises and Contracts; Regulation Authority




   32.15   Franchises; authority; conditions




Criminal History Investigations




   32.30   Purpose



   32.31   Background investigations



   32.32   Background information



   32.33   Disqualification



   32.34   Applicants for city licenses




GENERAL PROVISIONS




§ 32.01  FACSIMILE SIGNATURES.



   The Mayor and City Administrator are hereby authorized to request a
depository of city funds to honor an order for payment when that instrument
bears a facsimile of his or her signature, and to charge the same to the
account designated thereon or upon which it is drawn, as effectively as
though it were his or her manually written signature. This authority is
granted only for the purpose of permitting these officers an economy of time
and effort.



(2004 Code, § 32.01)



§ 32.02  ACCOUNTS, CLAIMS OR DEMANDS.



   (A)   Generally. Except as to an annual salary, fees of jurors or
witnesses fixed by law or wages or salaries of employees which have been
fixed on an hourly, daily, weekly or monthly basis by the Council and which
by law are authorized to be paid on a payroll basis, any account, claim or
demand against the city which can be itemized in the ordinary course of
business, the Council shall not audit or allow the claim until the person
claiming payment, or his or her agent, reduces it to writing, in items, and
signs a declaration to the effect that the account, claim or demand is just
and correct and that no part of it has been paid.



   (B)   Discretionary exception. The Council may, in its discretion,
allow a claim prepared by the City Administrator prior to the above
declaration by the claimant if the declaration is made on the check by which
the claim is paid.



   (C)   Form of declaration. The declaration provided for in division
(A) above is sufficient in the following form: “I declare under the
penalties of law that this account, claim or demand is just and correct and
that no part of it has been paid. Signature of claimant”.



   (D)   Form and effect of declaration on check. The declaration
provided for in division (B) above shall be printed on the reverse side of
the check, above the space for endorsement thereof by the payee, as follows:
“The undersigned payee, in endorsing this check, declares that the same is
received in payment of a just and correct claim against the city, and that no
part of it has heretofore been paid”. When endorsed by the payee named in
the check, this statement shall operate and shall be deemed sufficient as the
required declaration of claim.



   (E)   Signing checks. All checks shall be signed by the Mayor and
the City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 32.02)



§ 32.03  DEFERMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.



   (A)   The Council may defer the payment of any special assessment on
homestead property owned by a person who is 65 years of age or older, or who
is retired by virtue of permanent and total disability, and the City
Administrator is hereby authorized to record the deferment of special
assessments where the following conditions are met:



      (1)   The applicant must apply for the deferment not later
than 90 days after the assessment is adopted by the Council;



      (2)   The applicant must be 65 years of age or older, or
retired by virtue of permanent and total disability;



      (3)   The applicant must be the owner of the property;



      (4)   The applicant must occupy the property as his or her
principal place of residence; and



      (5)   The applicant’s income from all sources shall not
exceed the low income limit as established by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development as used in determining the eligibility for Section VIII
housing.



   (B)   The deferment shall be granted for as long a period of time as
the hardship exists and the conditions as mentioned above have been met.
However, it shall be the duty of the applicant to notify the City
Administrator of any change in his or her status that would affect
eligibility for deferment.



   (C)   The entire amount of deferred special assessments shall be due
within 60 days after loss of eligibility by the applicant. If the special
assessment is not paid within 60 days, the City Administrator shall add
thereto interest at the net interest rate of the bonds sold from the due date
through December 31 of the following year and the total amount of principal
and interest shall be certified to the County Auditor for collection with
taxes the following year. Should the applicant plead and prove, to the
satisfaction of the Council, that full repayment of the deferred special
assessment would cause the applicant particular undue financial hardship, the
Council may order that the applicant pay within 60 days a sum equal to the
number of installments of deferred special assessments outstanding and unpaid
to date (including principal and interest) with the balance thereafter paid
according to the terms and conditions of the original special assessment.



   (D)   The option to defer the payment of special assessments shall
terminate and all amounts accumulated, plus applicable interest, shall become
due upon the occurrence of any one of the following:



      (1)   The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is
eligible for deferment;



      (2)   The sale, transfer or subdivision of all or any part of
the property;



      (3)   Loss of homestead status on the property; or



      (4)   Determination by the Council for any reason that there
would be no hardship to require immediate or partial payment.



(2004 Code, § 32.03)



§ 32.04  EXPENDITURES BY PETITIONERS.



   No member of any initiative, referendum or recall committee, no person
circulating a paper for signatures, and no signer of any such paper, or any
other person, can accept or offer any pecuniary or other reward for service
rendered in connection with the circulation. This does not prevent the
committee from paying for legal services and from incurring necessary
expenses, including, but not limited to, stationery, copying, printing,
advertising and notary fees. A violation of this section is a misdemeanor.



(Ord. 13-716, passed 9-10-2013)




FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS; REGULATION AUTHORITY




§ 32.15  FRANCHISES; AUTHORITY; CONDITIONS.



   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      FRANCHISE. Any special privileges granted to any person in, over,
upon or under any of the streets or public places of the city, whether that
privilege has heretofore been granted by it or by the state, or shall
hereafter be granted by the city or by the state.



   (B)   Franchise ordinances. The Council may grant franchises by
ordinance. Franchise rights shall always be subject to the superior right of
the public to the use of streets and public places. All persons desiring to
make any burdensome use of the streets or public places, inconsistent with
the public’s right in those places, or desiring the privilege of placing
in, over, upon or under any street or public place any permanent or
semi-permanent fixtures for the purpose of constructing or operating
railways, telegraphing, transmitting electricity or transporting by pneumatic
tubes, or for furnishing to the city or its inhabitants, or any portion
thereof, transportation facilities, water, light, heat, power, gas or any
other utility, or for any other purpose, shall be required to obtain a
franchise before proceeding to make that use of the streets or public places
or before proceeding to place those fixtures in these places.



   (C)   Power of regulation reserved. The city shall have the right
and power to regulate and control the exercise by any person of any franchise
however acquired, and whether that franchise has been heretofore granted by
it or by the state.



   (D)   Conditions in every franchise. All conditions specified in
this section shall be a part of every franchise even though they may not be
expressly contained in the franchise.



      (1)   The grantee shall be subject to and will perform on its
part all the terms of this section and will comply with all pertinent
provisions of the city charter and this code of ordinances, as the same may
from time to time be amended.



      (2)   The grantee shall in no case claim or pretend to
exercise any power to fix fares, rates and charges; but the fares, rates and
charges shall at all times be just, fair and reasonable for the services
rendered and shall, in all cases, be fixed and from time to time changed,
unless regulated by an agency of the state, in the manner following.



         (a)   A reasonable rate shall be construed to be one
which will, with efficient management, normally yield above all operating
expenses and depreciation, a fair return upon all money invested.



         (b)   If possible, maximum rates and charges shall be
arrived at by direct negotiation with the Council.



         (c)   If direct negotiations fail to produce agreement,
the Council shall, not less than 30 days before the expiration of any
existing rate schedule or agreement, appoint an expert as its representative,
the franchisee shall likewise appoint an expert as its representative and the
two of them shall appoint a third person, preferably an expert, and the three
of them shall constitute a board of arbitration. The board shall report its
findings as soon as possible and the rates and charges it shall agree upon by
majority vote shall be legal and binding, subject only to review by a court
of competent jurisdiction upon application of one of the parties.



      (3)   The Council shall have the right to require reasonable
extensions of any public service system from time to time, and to make rules
and regulations as may be required to secure adequate and proper service and
to provide sufficient accommodations for the public.



      (4)   The grantee shall not issue any capital stock on account
of the franchise or the value thereof, and the grantee shall have no right to
receive upon condemnation proceedings brought by the city to acquire the
public utility exercising the franchise, any return on account of the
franchise or its value.



      (5)   No sale or lease of the franchise shall be effective
until the assignee or lessee shall have filed with the city an instrument,
duly executed, reciting the facts of the sale or lease, accepting the terms
of the franchise, and agreeing to perform all the conditions required of the
grantee thereunder.



      (6)   Every grant in the franchise contained of permission for
the erection of poles, masts or other fixtures in the streets and for the
attachment of wires thereto, or for the laying of tracks in, or of pipes or
conduits under the streets or public places, or for the placing in the
streets or other public places of any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures
whatsoever, shall be subject to the condition that the Council shall have the
power to require alterations therein, or relocation or rerouting thereof, as
the Council may at any time deem necessary for the safety, health or
convenience of the public and, particularly, that it shall have the power to
require the removal of poles, masts and other fixtures bearing wires and the
placing underground of all facilities for whatsoever purpose used.



      (7)   Every franchise shall contain a provision granting the
city the right to acquire the same in accordance with statute.



      (8)   The franchisee may be obligated by the city to pay the
city fees to raise revenue or defray increased costs accruing as a result of
utility operations, or both, including, but not limited to, a sum of money
based upon gross operating revenues or gross earnings from its operations in
the city.



   (E)   Further provisions of franchises. The enumeration and
specification of particular matters which must be included in every
franchise, or renewal or extension thereof, shall not be construed as
impairing the right of the city to insert in any franchise, or renewal or
extension thereof, other and further conditions and restrictions as the
Council may deem proper to protect the city’s interests, nor shall anything
contained in this section limit any right or power possessed by the city over
existing franchises.



(2004 Code, § 32.15)  Penalty, see § 10.99



CRIMINAL HISTORY INVESTIGATIONS



§ 32.30  PURPOSE.



   It may be desirable and useful in certain situations to obtain criminal
history information in connection on applicants for employment with the city
in certain city operations and is required of many applicants for licenses
from the city.



(2004 Code, § 32.20)  (Ord. 05-0421, passed 11-22-2005)



§ 32.31  BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.



   (A)   Police Services is hereby authorized to conduct a criminal
history background investigation on applicants for positions with the city
and applicants for various licenses.



   (B)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the city and/or police services in writing to undertake the
investigation and to release the information to the City Council, City
Administrator and any other city staff as appropriate.



   (C)   Except in the case of exceptions set forth in M.S. § 364.09,
as it may be amended from time to time, should the city reject the
applicant’s request for employment due partially or solely to the
applicant’s prior conviction of a crime, the City Administrator shall
notify the applicant in writing of the following:



      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;



      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set
forth in M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;



      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may apply for
employment; and



      (4)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be
reconsidered upon reapplication.



(2004 Code, § 32.21)  (Ord. 05-0421, passed 11-22-2005)



§ 32.32  BACKGROUND INFORMATION.



   Information obtained may include, but is not limited to:



   (A)   Status and history of driver’s licenses for candidates who
may be responsible for operating city vehicles or receiving city
reimbursement for operating an owned vehicle;



   (B)   Background check and criminal history check through
fingerprints to determine whether a candidate who may have substantial
contact with juveniles is a subject of any reported conviction of child
protection background check act crimes;



   (C)   Federal background screening, investigation, state and
national arrest and fugitive record checks and state and national III record
checks by fingerprints from candidates who would have access to operate,
program, effectuate access to National Crime Information Center (NCIC)
terminal or initiate transmission of NCIC information; and



   (D)   Criminal history information contained in the Minnesota
Criminal Justice Information System (CJIS).



(2004 Code, § 32.22)  (Ord. 05-0421, passed 11-22-2005)



§ 32.33  DISQUALIFICATION.



   No person shall be disqualified from employment with the city solely or
in part because of prior conviction of a crime or crimes unless the crime or
crimes for which convicted directly relate to the position of employment
sought. In determining if a conviction directly relates to position of public
employment sought, the hiring authority shall consider the requirements of
M.S. Ch. 364, as it may be amended from time to time. If the individual
refuses to give consent for this information, such individual will be
disqualified from employment or service with the city.



(2004 Code, § 32.23)  (Ord. 05-0421, passed 11-22-2005)



§ 32.34  APPLICANTS FOR CITY LICENSES.



   Police Services is hereby authorized to conduct background
investigations as set forth in this subchapter on applicants for licenses
under: Ch. 111, Peddlers and Solicitors; Ch. 112, Liquor; Ch. 114,
Amusements; Ch. 120, Pawnbrokers; Ch. 121, Sexually Oriented Business; and
other licenses for which the City Council may deem background checks to be
proper.



(2004 Code, § 32.24)  (Ord. 05-0421, passed 11-22-2005)



CHAPTER 33:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT



Section



   33.01   Policy and purpose



   33.02   Definitions



   33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization



   33.04   Powers and duties of Director



   33.05   Local emergencies



   33.06   Emergency regulations



   33.07   Emergency management a government function



   33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics



 



   33.99   Penalty



§ 33.01  POLICY AND PURPOSE.



   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage or
hostile action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure;
and in order to ensure that preparations of the city will be adequate to deal
with those disasters and, generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of the city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:



   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization
responsible for city planning and preparation for emergency government
operations in time of disasters;



   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during
emergencies and disasters;



   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the city
and other political subdivisions of the state and of other states with
respect to the carrying out of emergency preparedness functions; and



   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of
the state shall establish a local organization for emergency management.



(2004 Code, § 33.01)



§ 33.02  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment
to the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in
or is likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which
traditional sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are
unable to repair or prevent the injury or loss.



   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.



   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage or hostile action or from industrial hazardous
material mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting
services, police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning
services, communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate
care, emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of
plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE
functions.



   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in
city-level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from
city departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and
agencies.



   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for
coordinating city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This
organization provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and
local jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.



(2004 Code, § 33.02)



§ 33.03  ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.



   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency
management organization which shall be under the supervision and control of
the City Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director
shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council for an
indefinite term and may be removed by him or her at any time. The Director
shall serve with a salary as established by the City Council and shall be
paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the
emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction and control of
the Mayor.



(2004 Code, § 33.03)



§ 33.04  POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.



   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent
the city on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The
Director shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political
subdivisions of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and
assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall
present these agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements
shall be consistent with the state emergency plan.



   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human
resources, industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed
necessary to determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan
for their most efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The
Director shall establish the economic stabilization systems and measures,
service staffs, boards and sub-boards required, in accordance with state and
federal plans and directions subject to the approval of the Mayor.



   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for
the emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the
Council for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be
the duty of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the
city to perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved.
The plan may be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall
coordinate the emergency management activities of the city to the end that
they shall be consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the
federal government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the
county and other political subdivisions within the state.



   (D)   In accordance with the state and city emergency plan, the
Director shall institute training programs, public information programs and
conduct practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary
to assure prompt and effective operation of the city emergency plan when a
disaster occurs.



   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.



   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments
and agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.



   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, being M.S.
§§ 12.01 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, the Director
shall coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations
within the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs
as required to assure emergency operational capability in the several
services as provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations
issued by the Governor with reference to emergency management.



   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.



(2004 Code, § 33.04)



§ 33.05  LOCAL EMERGENCIES.



   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or
her legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of
three days, except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or
proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the
City Administrator.



   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary
portions of the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or
inter-jurisdictional disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance
thereunder.



   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local
emergency unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency
functions. However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid
and services in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.



(2004 Code, § 33.05)  Penalty, see § 33.99



§ 33.06  EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.



   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare
for an emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the
Governor or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate
regulations, consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation,
respecting:  the conduct of persons and the use of property during
emergencies; the repair, maintenance and safeguarding of essential public
services; emergency health, fire and safety regulations; drills or practice
periods required for preliminary training; and all other matters which are
required to protect public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.



   (B)   (1)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in
writing; shall be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it
pertains, if so limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.



      (2)   A copy shall be kept posted and available for public
inspection during business hours. Notice of the existence of these
regulations and their availability for inspection at the City
Administrator’s office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the
City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the
affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.



      (3)   By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a
regulation.



   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any
time. If not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30
days after its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it
relates, whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation
inconsistent with an emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be
suspended during the period of time and to the extent conflict exists.



   (D)   (1)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the
provisions of M.S. § 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and
notwithstanding any statutory or charter provision to the contrary,
empowered, through its Council, acting within or without the corporate limits
of the city, to enter into contracts and incur obligations necessary to
combat the disaster by protecting the health and safety of persons and
property and providing emergency assistance to the victims of a disaster.



      (2)   The city may exercise these powers in the light of the
exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-consuming
procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of
public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and
materials, limitations upon tax levies and the appropriation and expenditure
of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions,
publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules,
provisions relating to low bids and requirement for bids.



(2004 Code, § 33.06)  Penalty, see § 33.99



§ 33.07  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.



   (A)   All functions and activities relating to emergency management
are hereby declared to be governmental functions.



   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not affect the right of
any person to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise be entitled
under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation law, being M.S.
176.001 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, or under any pension
law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or compensation
under any act of Congress.



(2004 Code, § 33.07)



§ 33.08  PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.



   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form
of political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.



(2004 Code, § 33.08)



§ 33.99  PENALTY.



   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any
regulation adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions or conduct other
than official acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.



   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in § 10.99
of this code of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 33.99)



CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE AND TAXATION



Section




Sales and Use Tax; Motor Vehicle Excise Tax




   34.01   Authority



   34.02   Definitions



   34.03   Sales and use tax



   34.04   Separate statement; collection from purchaser; advertising
no tax; minimum uniform tax collection methods



   34.05   Exemption certificates



   34.06   Presumption of purpose of sale



   34.07   Collection of sales and use tax at time of sale



   34.08   Agent of retailer



   34.09   Motor vehicle excise tax



   34.10   Effective date; transitional sales



   34.11   Collection and enforcement



   34.12   Tax clearance issuance of licenses



   34.13   Expiration of sales tax



Cross-reference:



   Accounts, claims or demands, see § 32.02



   Deferment of special assessments, see § 32.03



SALES AND USE TAX; MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE TAX



§ 34.01  AUTHORITY.



   (A)   The state legislature has, by the laws of 2011 M.S. Ch. 7,
Art. 4, § 12, as it may be amended from time to time, authorized the city to
impose an additional sales and use tax, and a motor vehicle excise tax within
the city to provide revenues to pay certain costs related to the construction
and improvement of the city’s water and wastewater facilities, including
securing and paying debt service on bonds.



   (B)   The city approved the Act in accordance with applicable law.



(2004 Code, § 35.01)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.02  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purposes of this subchapter, the words, terms and phrases used
in this subchapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in M.S. §
297A.61, as it may be amended from time to time, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise. In addition, for the purpose of this subchapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.



   ACT. The laws of Minnesota for 2011, M.S. Ch. 7, Art. 4, § 12, as
amended.



   CHAPTER. This subchapter in its present form and as subsequently
codified in the city code.



   CITY. The City of Hutchinson.



   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Revenue for the state acting under
the authority of an agreement entered into between the city and the state
pursuant to the Act, or such other person or entity designated to administer
and collect the city’s sales and use tax.



   HUTCHINSON SALES AND USE TAX. The sales and use tax imposed and
collected pursuant to this subchapter.



   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the meaning given to it by M.S. § 297B.01, Subd.
11, as it may be amended from time to time, but only to the extent the motor
vehicle is required to be registered for road use.



   MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE TAX. The $20 per vehicle tax imposed and collected
pursuant to this subchapter.



   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE CITY (or any like
term). Any retailer having or maintaining within the city, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, place of distribution, sales or sample room or place,
warehouse or other place of business, or having any representative, agent,
sales person, canvasser or solicitor operating in the city under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, for any purpose, including the
repairing, selling, delivering, installing or soliciting of orders of the
retailer’s goods or services, or the leasing of tangible personal property
located in the city, whether the place of business or agent, representative,
salesperson, canvasser, transient merchant, peddler or solicitor, is located
in the city permanently or temporarily, or whether or not the retailer or
subsidiary is authorized to do business within the city.



(2004 Code, § 35.02)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.03  SALES AND USE TAX.



   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter there is hereby imposed
an additional sales tax in the amount of 0.5% on the gross receipts from the
sales at retail, and the storage, use, distribution or consumption of goods
or services which are taxable, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 297A, as it may be
amended from time to time, and occur within the  city. The imposition,
administration, collection and enforcement of this tax shall be governed by
the provisions of M.S. Ch. 297A, as it may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 35.03)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.04  SEPARATE STATEMENT; COLLECTION FROM PURCHASER; ADVERTISING NO TAX;
MINIMUM UNIFORM TAX COLLECTION METHODS.



   The city’s sales and use tax shall be stated and charged separately
from the sales price or charge for service insofar as practical, and should
be a debt from the purchaser to the seller recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts. In computing the tax to be collected as a result of
any transaction, any amount of tax less than 1/2¢ may be disregarded and
amounts of tax 1/2¢ or more may be considered an additional cent. If the
sales price of any sale at retail is $0.99 cents or less, no tax shall be
collected.



(2004 Code, § 35.04)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.05  EXEMPTION CERTIFICATES.



   A fully completed exemption certificate taken from a purchaser to the
effect that the property purchased is for resale or that the sale is
otherwise exempt from the application of the tax imposed by this subchapter
will conclusively relieve the retailer from collecting and remitting the tax
to the extent the seller is also relieved of liability for the sales tax
under M.S. § 297A.665, as it may be amended from time to time. A person who
has obtained from the Commissioner an exemption certificate pursuant to M.S.
§ 297A.72, as it may be amended from time to time, may use such exemption
certificate for the purposes of the sales tax imposed by the city.



(2004 Code, § 35.05)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.06  PRESUMPTION OF PURPOSE OF SALE.



   For the purpose of the proper administration and enforcement of §
34.03 of this chapter, it shall be presumed that all retail sales for
delivery in the city are for storage, use or other consumption in the city
until the contrary is established.



(2004 Code, § 35.06)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.07  COLLECTION OF SALES AND USE TAX AT TIME OF SALE.



   (A)   Any retailer making deliveries within the city, any retailer
maintaining a place of business in the city or any other retailer otherwise
doing business within the city, upon making sales or any items described in
§ 34.03 of this chapter, which are not exempted from the sales tax imposed
under that section and which are to be delivered or caused to be delivered
within the city to the purchaser, shall at the time of making such sales
collect the sales and use tax from the purchaser. The tax collected by such
retailer shall be remitted to the Commissioner on behalf of the city.



   (B)   Any retailer required to collect the city’s sales and use
tax and remit such tax to the Commissioner pursuant to this section shall
register with the Commissioner and provide such other information as the
Commissioner may require.



(2004 Code, § 35.07)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.08  AGENT OF RETAILER.



   When, in the opinion of the Commissioner, it is necessary for the
efficient administration of the tax, the Commissioner may regard any
salesperson, representative, trucker, peddler, transient merchant, solicitor
or canvasser as the agent of the dealer, distributor, supervisor, employer or
other person under whom such salesperson, representative, trucker, peddler
transient merchant, solicitor or canvasser operated or from whom the tangible
property is being sold is obtained, and may regard the dealer, distributor,
supervisor, employer or other person as a retailer for the purposes of this
subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 35.08)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.09  MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE TAX.



   In lieu of any city sales tax, there is hereby imposed an excise tax in
the amount of $20 per vehicle on the sale of new and used motor vehicles as
defined in this subchapter by any person engaged within the city in the
business of selling motor vehicles at retail. This excise tax is in addition
to any excise tax imposed by the state. The excise tax shall be stated and
charged separately and collected by the retailer and remitted monthly to the
City Clerk. Each retail seller of motor vehicles shall complete and submit
with each monthly payment of the excise tax such forms as may be required by
the City Clerk. Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent herewith,
all provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to the motor vehicle
excise tax. The motor vehicle excise tax collected each month by a retail
seller of vehicles shall be remitted to the City Clerk on or before the
fifteenth day of the following month.



(2004 Code, § 35.09)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.10  EFFECTIVE DATE; TRANSITIONAL SALES.



   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the city’s
sales and use tax authorized by this subchapter shall apply to sales made on
or after 1-1-2012, and shall be in addition to all other taxes now in effect.



   (B)   The city’s sales and use tax shall not apply to the
following:



      (1)   The gross receipts from retail sales or leases of
tangible personal property made pursuant to a bona fide written contract
which unconditionally vests the rights and obligations of the parties
thereto; provided that, such contracts are enforceable contracts entered into
before 1-1-2012, and that delivery or possession of the tangible personal
property subject thereto is made on or before 2-29-2012;



      (2)   The gross receipts from retail sales made pursuant to
bona fide lump sum or fixed price construction contract which unconditionally
vests the rights and obligations of the parties thereto and which does not
make provision for allocation of future taxes; provided that, such contract
is an enforceable contract entered into before 1-1-2012, and the delivery of
the tangible personal property used in performing such construction contract
is made before 1-1-2013;



      (3)   Payments made prior to 1-1-2012, for contracts to
provide taxable services; provided that, such contracts are enforceable
contracts entered into before 1-1-2012, however, the city’s sales and use
tax shall apply to payments made pursuant to such contracts to provide
services on and after 2-1-2012;  and/or



      (4)   Utility bills that include charges for services for any
date before 1-1-2012, however, the city’s sales and use tax shall apply to
all utility bills for services provided beginning 1-1-2012.



(2004 Code, § 35.10)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.11  COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.



   The city’s sales and use tax imposed by the city pursuant to this
subchapter shall be subject to the same interests, penalties and other rules
as are applicable to the state general sales and use tax imposed by M.S. Ch.
289A and Ch. 297A, as they may be amended from time to time. The city’s
sales and use tax imposed by the city pursuant to this subchapter may be
collected by the state on behalf of the city as provided by an appropriate
agreement with the State Commissioner of Revenue.



(2004 Code, § 35.11)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.12  TAX CLEARANCE ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.



   (A)   The city may not issue or renew a license for the conduct of a
trade or business in the city if the Commissioner notifies the city that the
applicant for such license owes delinquent city sales and use taxes as
provided in this subchapter, or penalties or interest due on such taxes. For
the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



      APPLICANT. An individual if the license is issued to or in the
name of an individual, or the corporation, partnership or other entity if the
license is issued to or in the name of a corporation, partnership or other
entity.



      CITY SALES AND USE TAXES. Includes sales and use tax as provided
in this subchapter. Penalties and interest are penalties and interest due on
taxes included in this definition.



      DELINQUENT TAXES. Does not include a tax liability if:



         (a)   In administrative or court action which contests
the amount of validity or the liability has been filed or served;



         (b)   The appeal period to contest tax liability has not
expired; or



         (c)   The applicant has entered into a payment agreement
and is current with the payments.



   (B)   A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the city
shall also be sent to the applicant taxpayer. In the case of renewal of a
license, if the applicant requests a hearing in writing within 30 days of the
receipt of the notice of delinquent taxes, then a contested case hearing
shall be held by the Commissioner under the same procedures as provided in
M.S. § 270C.72, as it may be amended from time to time, for the state sales
and use tax imposed under M.S. Ch. 297A, as it may be amended from time to
time; provided that, if a hearing must be held on the state sales and use
tax, hearings may be combined.



(2004 Code, § 35.12)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



§ 34.13  EXPIRATION OF SALES TAX.



   The authority to collect taxes imposed under this subchapter shall
expire on 1-1-2030 or at such time the City Council has determined that the
indebtedness for which the tax was originally imposed has been paid,
whichever is sooner.



(2004 Code, § 35.13)  (Ord. 11-0680, passed 10-25-2011)



TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS



   Chapter



      50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS



      51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE



      52.   WATER



      53.   SEWERS



      54.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT



CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS



Section




General Provisions




   50.01   Definitions



   50.02   Fixing rates and charges



   50.03   Contractual contents




Utility Rules and Regulations




   50.15   Application; connection; sale of service



   50.16   Discontinuance of service



   50.17   Utility ownership



   50.18   Right of entry



   50.19   Meter test; procedure



   50.20   Unlawful acts



   50.21   Services and charges a lien



   50.22   Additional policies




Water and Sewer Connection Procedures; Assessments




   50.35   Certificate required



   50.36   Uncertified land; additional connection charges



   50.37   Procedure for additional charges; appeal



   50.38   Future assessment



   50.39   Special assessment fund




GENERAL PROVISIONS




§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   COMPANY, GRANTEE or FRANCHISEE. Any public utility system to which a
franchise has been granted by the city.



   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. Any user of a utility.



   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Any city owned utility system, including, but not by
way of limitation, water, sewerage, electric, gas and refuse service.



   SERVICE. Includes, but is not limited to, providing a particular
utility to a customer or consumer and also includes the testing, inspection,
installation or repair of utility services.



   UTILITIES COMMISSION. The Utilities Commission of the city, and certain
specific references herein to the CITY shall include the city acting through
the UTILITIES COMMISSION where the language or context clearly indicates that
reference.



   UTILITY. All utility services, whether the same be public, city-owned
facilities or furnished by public utility companies.



(2004 Code, § 50.01)  (Ord. 90-20, passed 5-22-1990)



§ 50.02  FIXING RATES AND CHARGES.



   (A)   (1)   All rates and charges for municipal utilities not
fixed by the Utilities Commission shall be fixed, determined and amended by
the Council and adopted by ordinance.



      (2)   This ordinance, containing the effective date thereof,
shall be kept on file and open to inspection in the office of the City
Administrator and shall be uniformly enforced.



   (B)   For the purpose of fixing these rates and charges, the Council
may categorize and classify under the various types of service; provided
that, the categorization and classification shall be included in the
ordinance authorized by this section.



(2004 Code, § 50.02)



§ 50.03  CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.



   Provisions of this title relating to municipal utilities shall
constitute portions of the contract between the city and all consumers of
municipal utility services, and every consumer shall be deemed to assent to
the same.



(2004 Code, § 50.03)




UTILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS




§ 50.15  APPLICATION; CONNECTION; SALE OF SERVICE.



   Application for municipal utility services shall be made upon forms
supplied by the city, and strictly in accordance therewith. No connection
shall be made until consent has been received from the city to make the same.
All municipal utilities shall be sold and delivered to consumers under the
then applicable rate applied to the amount of those utilities taken as
metered or ascertained in connection with the rates.



(2004 Code, § 50.15)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 50.16  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.



   (A)   All municipal utilities may be shut off or discontinued
whenever it is found that:



      (1)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any
person working on any connection with the municipal utility systems, has
violated any requirement of this code relative thereto or any connection
therewith;



      (2)   Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other
financial obligation imposed on the present owner or occupant of the premises
served, is unpaid after due notice thereof; or



      (3)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or
occupant in connection with any application for service or delivery or
charges therefor.



   (B)   No service of a residential customer shall be disconnected if
the disconnection affects the primary heat source for the residential unit
when the disconnection would occur during the period between October 15 and
April 15, the customer has declared inability to pay on forms provided by the
city, the household income of the customer is less that 185% of the federal
poverty level as documented by the customer to the city and the customer’s
account is current for the billing period immediately prior to October 15 or
the customer has entered into a payment schedule and is reasonably current
with payments under the schedule. The city shall, between August 15 and
October 15 of each year, notify all residential customers of these provisions.



(2004 Code, § 50.16)



§ 50.17  UTILITY OWNERSHIP.



   Ownership of all municipal utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions
and appurtenances thereto shall be and remain in the city and no person shall
own any part or portion thereof; provided, however, that, private facilities
and appurtenances constructed on private property are not intended to be
included in municipal ownership.



(2004 Code, § 50.17)



§ 50.18  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



   By applying for or receiving a municipal utility service, a customer
irrevocably consents and agrees that any city employee acting within the
course and scope of his or her employment may enter into and upon the private
property of the customer, including dwellings and other buildings, at all
reasonable times under the circumstances, in or upon which private property a
municipal utility or connection therewith is installed, for the purpose of
inspecting, repairing, reading meters, connecting or disconnecting the
municipal utility service; provided, however, that, except in the case of an
emergency, before entering the property, the customer shall be notified of
the proposed entrance and, if the customer refuses to permit the entrance,
the city employee must obtain an administrative search warrant as provided
for in § 10.20(D) of this code of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 50.18)



§ 50.19  METER TEST; PROCEDURE.



   Whenever a consumer shall request the city to test any utility meter in
use by him or her, the request shall be accompanied by a cash deposit for
each meter to be tested. If any tested meter is found to be inaccurate, the
same shall be replaced with an accurate meter and the deposit thereon
refunded. If the meter shall be found to be accurate in its recordings or
calculations, it shall be reinstalled and the deposit shall be retained by
the city to defray the cost of the test. As to remote-type readers, and if
there is a disparity between the meter reading and the remote reading, the
meter reading shall govern. The consumer shall attend the testing in person,
if possible.



(2004 Code, § 50.19)



§ 50.20  UNLAWFUL ACTS.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly
break, injure, mar, deface, disturb or in any way interfere with any
buildings, attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture or
appurtenance of any municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit
any act tending to obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.



   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with or
opening into, use or alter in any way any municipal utility system without
first having applied for and received written permission to do so from the
city.



   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility
when the same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment
of a bill, or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to
do so from the city.



   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to “jumper” or by any means
or device fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to
knowingly use or consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any
utility system, the use of which the proper billing authorities have no
knowledge.



(2004 Code, § 50.20)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 50.21  SERVICES AND CHARGES A LIEN.



   (A)   Payment for all municipal utility (as defined in § 50.01 of
this chapter) service and charges shall be the primary responsibility of the
owner of the premises served and shall be billed to him or her unless
otherwise contracted for and authorized in writing by the owner and the
tenant, as agent for the owner, and consented to by the city. The city may
collect the same in a civil action or, in the alternative and at the option
of the city, as otherwise provided in this section.



   (B)   Each such account is hereby made a lien upon the premises
served. All these accounts for sewer and water service which are more than 45
days past due may, when authorized by ordinance of the Council, be certified
by the City Administrator to the County Auditor, and the City Administrator
in so certifying shall specify the amount thereof, the description of the
premises served and the name of the owner thereof. The amount so certified
shall be extended by the Auditor on the tax rolls against those premises in
the same manner as other taxes, and collected by the County Treasurer, and
paid to the city along with other taxes.



(2004 Code, § 50.21)



§ 50.22  ADDITIONAL POLICIES.



   The Utilities Commission may from time to time issue policies which
will supplement these rules and regulations; the latest copy will be on file
at the City Administrator’s office.



(2004 Code, § 50.22)




WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION PROCEDURES; ASSESSMENTS




§ 50.35  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.



   (A)   In addition to all other charges for tapping into or
connecting with the municipal sanitary sewer system, or the municipal water
system, including inspection of connection, street opening fees and permit
fees elsewhere established by this code, no connection permit shall be
issued, nor shall any tap or other connection be installed or made with or
into any municipal sanitary sewer or water system of the city, either
directly or indirectly, from any lot or tract of land unless the City
Engineer shall have certified that construction costs have been addressed.



   (B)   To fulfill the above requirement, the City Engineer shall have
certified as follows:



      (1)   The lot or tract of land to be thus served by the
connection or tap has been assessed for the cost of construction of the sewer
and water main with which the connection is made;



      (2)   If no assessment has been levied for the construction
cost, proceedings for the levying of the assessment, or assessments, have
been or will be commenced in due course; and



      (3)   The cost of construction for that sewer or water main
has been paid by the developer or builder platting the lot or tract of land;
this shall not include lots or tracts served by the municipal sewer system,
and which were not a part of the plat or tract development.



(2004 Code, § 50.35)  (Ord. 90-19, passed 5-8-1990)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 50.36  UNCERTIFIED LAND; ADDITIONAL CONNECTION CHARGES.



   If none of the above conditions can be certified by the City Engineer,
no permit to tap or connect to any sanitary sewer or water main shall be
issued unless the applicant shall pay an additional connection fee or fees,
which shall be equal to the portion of the cost of the construction and
installation of water and sewer mains which would be assessable against the
lot, tract or parcel to be served by the tapping or connection pursuant to
that permit. The assessable cost shall be determined by the City Engineer
upon a comparable basis per front foot as similar assessments for this type
of public improvement were determined and levied in that district or area,
then the calculation shall be made upon the basis of a uniform charge per
front foot, which may have been or shall be estimated or levied for similar
public improvement most recently constructed, this determination having
regard for construction costs current on the date of the determination.



(2004 Code, § 50.36)  (Ord. 90-19, passed 5-8-1990)



§ 50.37  PROCEDURE FOR ADDITIONAL CHARGES; APPEAL.



   (A)   Written application shall be made upon forms to be provided
therefor by the city and shall require information including, but not limited
to, the following:



      (1)   Exact legal description of the premises for which water
or sewer connection is applied, including plat and parcel number;



      (2)   Address of the premises;



      (3)   Name and address of the plumber and other contractor;



      (4)   Name and address of the owner of the premises;



      (5)   Date of opening and installation of the connection;



      (6)   General description of the type and methods of
connection to be used or made; and



      (7)   Other pertinent information as the Engineer may require
from time to time.



   (B)   The appropriate additional connection fee, or fees, shall be
determined by the City Engineer within ten days of the application.



   (C)   The applicant shall enter into a contractual agreement with
the city whereby for payment of the additional connection fee, or fees, the
premises for which water or sewer connection is applied shall be permitted to
tap or connect to the water or sewer system.



   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation being aggrieved by any
additional connection charges pursuant to this subchapter may appeal those
charges to the City Council by giving written notice to the City
Administrator within ten days of the date upon which determination of the
charges was made known to the applicant. In the event a hearing is requested
by the applicant, the City Administrator shall set the matter for hearing
before the City Council not less than ten days and not more than 30 days
after the request. The City Council shall review the determination of the fee
or fees and make its final order sustaining or modifying the fee or fees.



(2004 Code, § 50.37)  (Ord. 90-19, passed 5-8-1990)



§ 50.38  FUTURE ASSESSMENT.



   In the future, should sanitary sewer or water improvements be made, the
abutting property would be subject to assessment for those improvements, but
would receive full credit (without interest) for any connection fee or fees
previously paid or levied.



(2004 Code, § 50.38)  (Ord. 90-19, passed 5-8-1990)



§ 50.39  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.



   Any sums thus received by the city shall be deposited or paid into a
special assessment fund or account and may be credited to the special
assessments which may have been theretofore levied, or may be thereafter
levied, for water or sanitary sewer improvements involving the premises for
which each special connection fee has been collected.



(2004 Code, § 50.39)  (Ord. 90-19, passed 5-8-1990)



CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE



Section



   51.01   Definition



   51.02   Storage and transportation restricted



   51.03   Containers



   51.04   Refuse collection and disposal



   51.05   Public disposal sites; city property



   51.06   Disposal site use



§ 51.01  DEFINITION.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   REFUSE. Includes all drained organic material resulting from the
preparation of food and spoiled or decayed food from any source, bottles,
cans, glassware, paper or paper products, crockery, ashes, rags and discarded
clothing, tree and lawn clippings and solid market and industrial wastes.



(2004 Code, § 51.01)



§ 51.02  STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION RESTRICTED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse, except as
herein provided.



   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse over any
street, for hire, except by special permit from the Council, or acting within
the course and scope of a written contract with the city or that person’s
employment with the city.



   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse on any
street unless it is carried in a vehicle equipped with a leak-proof body or
container and completely covered with a heavy canvas or top to prevent loss
of contents.



(2004 Code, § 51.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 51.03  CONTAINERS.



   All refuse shall be stored in clean, rust-resistant, water-tight,
non-absorbent and washable closed containers, approved for the purpose by the
city; provided, however, that, tree clippings may be stored in tied bundles
no longer than four feet and lawn clippings and paper may be stored in
containers protected from wind and other elements.



(2004 Code, § 51.03)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 51.04  REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.



   The city shall provide for collection and disposal of all refuse in a
sanitary manner to ensure the health, safety and general welfare of its
residents, under terms and conditions as the city may, from time to time,
deem appropriate. Containers shall be placed at the designated collection
point on days specified by the city. Collection points will generally be the
alley adjacent to the property from which refuse is collected; but, where
there is no alley, the curb line in front of the property.



(2004 Code, § 51.04)



§ 51.05  PUBLIC DISPOSAL SITES; CITY PROPERTY.



   All materials at public disposal sites are the property of the city. It
is unlawful for any person to separate, collect, carry off or dispose of
these materials, except by direction of the city.



(2004 Code, § 51.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 51.06  DISPOSAL SITE USE.



   Privately hauled non-refuse disposal from households, and refuse and
non-refuse disposal from commercial establishments, may be deposited at the
disposal site upon payment of charges therefor.



(2004 Code, § 51.06)



CHAPTER 52:  WATER



Section



   52.01   Water deficiency and shutoff; disclaimer



   52.02   Repair of leaks and equipment



   52.03   Abandoned service; disconnection fee; improper disconnection



   52.04   Service pipe standards



   52.05   Private water supplies; connection prohibited



   52.06   Shortages; restricted uses and hours



   52.07   Private fire hose connections



   52.08   Opening hydrants restricted



   52.09   Unmetered service



   52.10   Water meters



   52.11   State Plumbing Code; compliance required



   52.12   Connection required



   52.13   Private wells for domestic use



§ 52.01  WATER DEFICIENCY AND SHUTOFF; DISCLAIMER.



   The city is not liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of
water to customers whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the
purpose of making repairs or connections or by any other cause whatever. In
case of fire, or alarm of fire, water may be shut off to insure a supply for
firefighting. In making repairs or construction of new works, water may be
shut off at any time and kept off so long as may be necessary.



(2004 Code, § 52.01)



§ 52.02  REPAIR OF LEAKS AND EQUIPMENT.



   It is the responsibility of the consumer or owner to maintain the
service pipe from the main into the house or other building, including, but
not limited to, the stand pipe or curb stop and all equipment associated with
the service line, stand pipe or curb stop. In case of failure upon the part
of any consumer or owner to repair any leak or any service line, stand pipe
or curb stop, within 24 hours after oral or written notice has been given the
owner or occupant of the premises, the water may be shut off and will not be
turned on until a reconnection charge has been paid and the water service has
been repaired. When the waste of water is great or when damage is likely to
result from the leak, the water will be turned off  if the repair is not
proceeded with immediately. Following notice as provided by this chapter, at
the sole option of the city, the city may repair the leak and the service
pipe, stand pipe or curb stop and all equipment associated with the service
line, stand pipe or curb stop and assess the cost for the repair against the
property benefitted. The costs to be so assessed may include, but are not
limited to, material, labor and professional fees and expenses incurred in
the repair.



(2004 Code, § 52.02)  (Ord. 93-80, passed 5-11-1993; Ord. 93-82, passed
6-8-1993)



§ 52.03  ABANDONED SERVICE; DISCONNECTION FEE; IMPROPER DISCONNECTION.



   All service installations connected to the water system that have been
abandoned (no present need for service) or that for any reason have become
useless for further service, shall be disconnected at the main. The owner of
the premises served by this service shall pay the cost of the excavation. The
city shall perform the actual disconnection and all pipe and appurtenances
removed from the street right-of-way shall become the property of the city.
When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is desired to
increase the old water service, a new permit shall be taken out and the
regular tapping charge shall be made as if this were a new service. It is
unlawful for any person to cause or allow any service pipe to be hammered or
squeezed together at the ends to stop the flow of water, or to save expense
in improperly removing a pipe from the main. Also, the improper disposition
thereof shall be corrected by the city and the cost incurred shall be borne
by the person causing or allowing that work to be performed.



(2004 Code, § 52.03)



§ 52.04  SERVICE PIPE STANDARDS.



   Every service pipe must be laid in a manner so as to prevent rupture by
settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than seven feet below
the surface in all cases so arranged as to prevent rupture and stoppage by
freezing. Frozen service pipes between the main and the building shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Service pipes must extend from the curb stops to
the inside of the building or, if not taken into a building, then to the
hydrant or other fixtures which they are intended to supply. A valve, the
same size as the service pipe, shall be placed close to the inside wall of
the building, ahead of the meter and well protected from freezing. Joints on
copper tubing shall be flared or compression-fitted, and kept to a minimum.
Not more than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet in length.
All joints shall be left uncovered until inspected. Minimum size connection
with the water mains shall be one inch in diameter.



(2004 Code, § 52.04)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 52.05  PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES; CONNECTION PROHIBITED.



   No water pipe of the city water system shall be connected with any
pump, well, pipe, tank or any device that is connected with any other source
of water supply and, when this type of connection is found, the city shall
notify the owner or occupant to disconnect the same and, if not immediately
done, the city water shall be turned off. Before any new connections to the
city system are permitted, the city shall ascertain that no cross-connections
will exist when the new connection is made. When a building is connected to
city water, the private water supply may be used only for purposes as the
city may allow.



(2004 Code, § 52.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 52.06  SHORTAGES; RESTRICTED USES AND HOURS.



   (A)   Whenever the city shall determine that a shortage of water
threatens the city, it may entirely prohibit water use or limit the times and
hours during which water may be used from the city water system for lawn and
garden sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning and other uses,
or either or any of them. It is unlawful for any water consumer to cause or
permit water to be used in violation of this determination after public
announcement thereof has been made through the news media specifically
indicating the restrictions thereof.



   (B)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall have the
authority to declare the terms and conditions of the water use restrictions,
and the restrictions shall become effective immediately following public
announcement of the same. The restrictions shall be confirmed by the City
Council at the next regularly scheduled meeting thereof.



(2004 Code, § 52.06)  (Ord. 97-197, passed 7-8-1997)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 52.07  PRIVATE FIRE HOSE CONNECTIONS.



   Owners of structures with self-contained fire protection systems may
apply for and obtain permission to connect the street mains with hydrants,
large pipes and hose couplings, for use in case of fire only, at their own
installation expense and at rates as the Council may adopt by ordinance as
herein provided.



(2004 Code, § 52.07)



§ 52.08  OPENING HYDRANTS RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful for any person, other than members of the Fire
Department or other persons duly authorized by the city, in pursuance of
lawful purpose, to open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the
same or in any manner interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any person
so authorized to deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person any
hydrant key or wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their
lawful use.



(2004 Code, § 52.08)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 52.09  UNMETERED SERVICE.



   Unmetered service may be provided for construction, flooding skating
rinks and any other purpose. This service shall be at a duly adopted rate.
Where it is difficult or impossible to accurately measure the  amount of
water taken, unmetered service may be provided and the unmetered rate
applied; provided,  however, that, by acceptance thereof the consumer agrees
to have the city estimate the water used. In so estimating, the city shall
consider the use to which the water is put and the length of time of
unmetered service.



(2004 Code, § 52.09)



§ 52.10  WATER METERS.



   All water meters shall be purchased from the city by the property owner
and maintained by the city. All repairs of water meters not resulting from
normal usage shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Any other
meter in need of replacement shall be replaced with a remote-type meter,
which shall be furnished and maintained by the city. All water meters shall
be installed, removed and in all respects controlled by the city, and the
cost of installation shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Any
remote-type meter in need of replacement by reason of normal usage shall be
furnished and installed by the city; thereafter, the city shall own that
meter.



(2004 Code, § 52.10)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 52.11  STATE PLUMBING CODE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.



   All piping, connections and appurtenances shall be installed and
performed strictly in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, being MCAR
4715. Failure to install or maintain the same in accordance therewith, or
failure to have or permit required inspections shall, upon discovery by the
city, be an additional ground for termination of water service to any
consumer.



(2004 Code, § 52.11)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 52.12  CONNECTION REQUIRED.



   (A)   The following buildings that serve as the principal structure
and are used for human occupancy shall be required to be connected to the
city water utility.



      (1)   All buildings connected to the city water system on the
date of adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall
remain connected to the city system for so long as the building is occupied
or used for any purpose.



      (2)   All buildings constructed on property to which city
water service is available at the time a  certificate of occupancy is issued
for the building after the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived shall be required to connect to city system prior to
occupancy.



      (3)   All buildings constructed on property to which city
water becomes available following legal occupancy of the building after the
date of adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be
required to connect to the city system as follows.



         (a)   All buildings shall be required to connect to the
water utility within the timeframes established in accordance with a
subdivision agreement, assessment roll, annexation agreement or other
agreement to connect to city water as determined by the City Engineer.



         (b)   All other buildings shall be required to connect
to city water within 90 days from the date city water service becomes
available to the property.



      (4)   All buildings existing on the date of adoption of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived on property to which city water
service is available or becomes available and are not connected to city
water, shall be required to connect to city water as follows.



         (a)   All buildings shall be required to connect to the
water utility within the timeframes established in accordance with a
subdivision agreement, assessment roll, annexation agreement or other
agreement to connect to city water as determined by the City Engineer.



         (b)   All other buildings shall be required to connect
to the water utility within three years of the date of adoption of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived.



      (5)   Any buildings that do not meet the criteria set forth in
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) above shall be required to connect to city
water as determined by the City Engineer on a case-by-case basis.



   (B)   The owner of any building required by this section to be
connected to the city water system shall cause the building to be connected
to the city system, at the owner’s expense, as required. If connections to
the city water system are not being made pursuant to this section, the city
shall serve written notice on the affected property owner stating that if
connection is not made within 90 days after the date of notice, the
connection will be made by the city at the expense of the owner and that, if
unpaid, the charge for such work will be made a special assessment against
the property concerned. Such assessment, including interest at the legal rate
for local improvements, shall be certified to the County Auditor and
collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments for
local improvements. The rights of the city under this section shall be in
addition to other remedial or enforcement rights provided by this code or
other applicable law.



(2004 Code, § 52.12)  (Ord. 12-0684, passed 8-14-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 52.13  PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC USE.



   (A)   The installation of new private wells for domestic use on any
property to which city water service is available, is prohibited, subject to
the exceptions set forth in divisions (C) and (D) below.



   (B)   Private wells for domestic use in existence on the date of
adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, and private
wells for domestic use installed subsequent to said date, on properties to
which city water service is not available at the time of installation, may
remain in use provided they comply with all applicable regulations,
including, but not limited to, M.S. §§ 144.381 to 144.387, as they may be
amended from time to time. The replacement of private wells for domestic use
in existence on the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter
is derived will be considered by the City Engineer on a case-by-case basis.



   (C)   PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC USE shall mean any well not owned
by the city which is drilled or installed for residential, commercial or
industrial potable water or irrigation purposes. PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC
USE shall not include wells drilled for such purposes as dewatering, ground
water monitoring, heating or cooling, elevator borings or environmental bore
holes.



   (D)   (1)   Requests for new private wells for domestic use will
be considered on a case-by-case basis. The request shall contain the
following information, as well as additional information as may be required
by the City Engineer:



         (a)   Full name, mailing address, phone number;



         (b)   Address of property with proposed well and
proposed location of well;



         (c)   Well details including diameter, depth, estimated
daily volume used in gallons;



         (d)   Intended use of well water; and



         (e)   Reason for request including statement of hardship
created by this section.



      (2)   Within 60 days of receipt of all necessary information,
the City Engineer shall render a decision either granting or denying the
request.



(2004 Code, § 52.13)  (Ord. 12-0684, passed 8-14-2012)



CHAPTER 53:  SEWERS



Section




General Provisions




   53.001   Definitions




Construction and Connections




   53.015   Permit required; connection costs; fees



   53.016   Private systems



   53.017   Removal of prohibited connections



   53.018   Old building sewers



   53.019   Standards



   53.020   Regulations and codes apply



   53.021   Inspections



   53.022   Excavations; barricades and lights; restoration



   53.023   Sewer line; owner responsibility




Public Sewers; Use Restrictions




   53.035   Unpolluted waters; discharge to sanitary sewers prohibited



   53.036   Storm sewers



   53.037   Prohibited discharges; NPDES permit



   53.038   Special agreements



   53.039   New connections; treatment capacity requirement



   53.040   Dilution not a treatment




Industrial Wastes; Control




   53.055   Data submission



   53.056   Industrial discharges; Council authority



   53.057   Control manholes



   53.058   Flow measurement; water and waste meters



   53.059   Waste sampling



   53.060   Pretreatment



   53.061   Grease, oil and sand interceptors



   53.062   Analysis



   53.063   Treatment facilities; approval required




Industrial Wastewater; Pretreatment




   53.075   Purpose and policy; application



   53.076   Definitions



   53.077   Discharge prohibitions



   53.078   Limitations on wastewater strength



   53.079   Accidental discharges; notification



   53.080   Charges and fees; purpose



   53.081   Wastewater discharge permits



   53.082   Self-monitoring reports; monitoring facilities



   53.083   Inspection, sampling and analysis



   53.084   Pretreatment



   53.085   Confidentiality



   53.086   Sludges generated; disposal



   53.087   Final compliance date; reporting requirements



   53.088   Emergency suspension of service and permit



   53.089   Notification of violation; correction; permit revocation



   53.090   Hearing



   53.091   Legal action



   53.092   Publication of violators



   53.093   Appeal



   53.094   Costs of damage



   53.095   Falsifying information unlawful




Rates and Charges




   53.110   Sewer use measurement; water meters; private water sources



   53.111   Deduct meters



   53.112   Treatment works; operation, maintenance and replacement
costs



   53.113   Service charges; user categories



   53.114   Disposition of operation, maintenance and replacement funds



   53.115   Septic tank sludge and holding tank sewage; disposal
permit; fees; liability



   53.116   Toxic pollutants; surcharges



   53.117   Billing procedures




Storm Water Drainage Utility




   53.130   Establishment



   53.131   Definitions



   53.132   Findings and determinations



   53.133   Rates and charges; land use classifications



   53.134   Adjustment authority



   53.135   Public hearing and notice



   53.136   Exemptions



   53.137   Payment of charges



   53.138   Delinquent accounts



   53.139   Recalculation; adjustments; credits




Administration and Enforcement




   53.150   Right of entry; identification; safety rules



   53.151   Public nuisances; abatement; emergency abatement



   53.152   Appeals; procedures



   53.153   Annual audit; rate notification



   53.154   Records




GENERAL PROVISIONS




§ 53.001  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five days at 20°C, expressed
as milligrams per liter (mg/l). Quantitative determination of BOD shall be
made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.



   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer.



   BUILDING SEWER. A sanitary sewer which begins immediately outside of
the foundation wall of any building or structure being served, and ends at
its connection to the public sewer.



   CATEGORY A. The sanitary users who discharge normal domestic strength
wastewater with concentrations of BOD no greater than 200 mg/l, suspended
solids no greater than 300 mg/l and nitrogen no greater than 45 mg/l.



   CATEGORY B. The sanitary sewer users who discharge wastewater with
concentrations in excess of 200 mg/l of BOD, 300 mg/l suspended solids or 45
mg/l nitrogen. Users whose wastewater exceeds the concentration for any one
of these parameters shall be in CATEGORY B.



   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine, in mg/l, which must be
added to sewage to produce a residual chlorine as specified in the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.



   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm
or surface water.



   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste
as distinct from industrial wastewater.



   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. BOD, suspended solids, phosphorus, nitrogen, pH
or fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the
city’s NPDES permit for its wastewater treatment facility; provided that,
this facility is designed to treat these additional pollutants and, in fact,
does remove these pollutants to a substantial degree.



   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct those
facilities.



   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specified use of land owned
by others.



   FIXED CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the treatment works for those
costs attributable to administration of the wastewater treatment works (i.e.,
billing and associated bookkeeping and accounting costs) and for one-half of
the total debt service attributable to sewer rehabilitation.



   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.



   GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC USER. Users which are units, agencies or
instrumentalities of federal, state or local government discharging normal
domestic strength wastewater.



   GROUND GARBAGE. The residue from the preparation, cooking, dispensing,
handling, storage and sale of food products and produce that has been
shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely in
suspension under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers,
with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.



   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater with pollutants that will adversely
affect the wastewater treatment facilities or disrupt the quality of
wastewater treatment if discharged to the wastewater treatment facilities.



   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES. Includes:



      (1)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental
under one of the following divisions: Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and
Fishing; Division B: Mining; Division D: Manufacturing; Division E:
Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary Sewers; or
Division I: Services. For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste
shall be considered to have the following characteristics:



         (a)   BOD no greater than 200 mg/l;



         (b)   Suspended solids no greater than 300 mg/l; and



         (c)   Nitrogen no greater than 45 mg/l.



      (2)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly owned treatment
works which discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic
pollutants or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge
of any municipal systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage
treatment process, or which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals,
creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect
on the waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works.



   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged or
escaping from any industrial, manufacturing or commercial establishment. The
term includes any wastewater which is not sanitary sewage.



   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building
drains and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe
joints, connections and manhole walls.



   INFILTRATION/INFLOW or I-I. The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.



   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system
(including building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof
leaders, cellar drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm
sewers, catch basins, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.



   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A user other than commercial, governmental,
industrial or residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic
strength wastewater (e.g., non-profit organizations).



   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES PERMIT. A
document issued by the state which establishes effluent limitations and
monitoring requirements for the municipal wastewater treatment facility.



   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.



   NITROGEN. Kjeldahl nitrogen, which is the sum of organic nitrogen and
ammonia nitrogen.



   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater with concentrations of
BOD no greater than 200 mg/l, suspended solids no greater than 300 mg/l and
nitrogen no greater than 45 mg/l.



   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs required to provide
for the dependable and economical functioning of the treatment facilities
throughout the design or useful life, whichever is longer, of the treatment
facilities, and at the level or performance for which the treatment
facilities were designed and constructed. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement. These costs shall be determined from time to time by the city.



   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration.
The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of
solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.



   PHOSPHORUS. Total phosphorus, expressed in mg/l of P (phosphorus).



   PUBLIC SEWER. Any publicly owned sewer, storm drain, sanitary sewer or
combined sewer.



   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the design or useful
life (whichever is longer) of the wastewater treatment facility to maintain
the capacity and performance for which those facilities were designed and
constructed. Operation and maintenance costs include REPLACEMENT COSTS.



   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength
sanitary wastes.



   SANITARY SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilets and/or sanitary plumbing facilities.



   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sewage or wastewater.



   SEWAGE. The spent water of a person or community. The preferred term is
WASTEWATER.



   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.



   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater
treatment facilities for payment of operation and maintenance expenses, debt
service costs and other expenses or obligations of those facilities.



   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of
any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of
duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of flows during normal operation or adversely affects the
collection system or performance of the wastewater treatment facility.



   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth
in the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association,
the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control
Federation.



   STORM SEWER OR DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water, ground
water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.



   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods,
and referred to as NON-FILTERABLE RESIDUE.



   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent of
the wastewater treatment facilities or water that would not cause violation
of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge
to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.



   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the
user’s proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance,
including replacement.



   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community or person. From the
standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any ground water, surface water and storm water
that may be present.



   WASTEWATER COLLECTION FACILITIES or WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. The
structures and equipment required to collect and carry wastewater.



   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. An arrangement of devices and structures
for treating wastewater and sludge. Also referred to as WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT.



(2004 Code, § 53.001)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)




CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS




§ 53.015  PERMIT REQUIRED; CONNECTION COSTS; FEES.



   (A)   Work authorized. It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to
uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb the
sanitary sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written
permit from the Council.



   (B)   Cost of sewer connection. All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
person making the connection.



   (C)   Sewer connection fees. The Council shall have the authority to
establish and enforce sewer connection fees as deemed appropriate by the
Council.



(2004 Code, § 53.015)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.016  PRIVATE SYSTEMS.



   All property owners with septic systems, holding tanks, mound systems
or other on-site systems shall be required to hook up to the sanitary sewer
system unless granted a variance by the Council.



(2004 Code, § 53.016)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.017  REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.



   Any person, owner, lessee or occupant, and any plumber or building
contractor who has presently made or permitted to be made, or shall make or
permit to be made, any connection or installation in violation of this
chapter shall immediately remove that connection or correct that
installation. If not removed or corrected within 30 calendar days after
notice of violation has been delivered personally or by certified mail to
that person, owner, lessee or occupant, the city may impose a surcharge of
$100 per month on the sewer bill of the property owners who are not in
compliance with this chapter. This surcharge may also be imposed upon any
property owner, lessee or occupant who, after the 30 calendar day notice,
refuses to allow his or her property to be inspected or fails to provide the
certificate from an authorized and registered state licensed plumber. All
properties found during regular or periodic reinspection programs that
violate this chapter will be subject, at the discretion of the city, to the
imposition of the monthly fee for all months between the two most recent
inspections.



(2004 Code, § 53.017)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988; Ord. 01-291, passed
5-22-2001)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.018  OLD BUILDING SEWERS.



   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Council, to meet all
requirements for this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 53.018)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.019  STANDARDS.



   (A)   Construction materials and methods. The size, slope, alignment
and materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used
in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the
trench shall conform to the requirements of the State Building Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice
No. 9 shall apply.



   (B)   Building sewer grade. Whenever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by that building drain shall be
lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.



(2004 Code, § 53.019)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.020  REGULATIONS AND CODES APPLY.



   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the sanitary sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the State Building Code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.



   (B)   All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.



   (C)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Council before installation.



(2004 Code, § 53.020)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.021  INSPECTIONS.



   The person making a connection to a public sewer shall notify the
Council when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection with
the public sewer. The connection shall be inspected and approved by the
Council.



(2004 Code, § 53.021)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.022  EXCAVATIONS; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS; RESTORATION.



   All excavations for the building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Council.



(2004 Code, § 53.022)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.023  SEWER LINE; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.



   The property owner shall be responsible for the sewer line from the
building to the main sewer line.



(2004 Code, § 53.023)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)




PUBLIC SEWERS; USE RESTRICTIONS




§ 53.035  UNPOLLUTED WATERS; DISCHARGE TO SANITARY SEWERS PROHIBITED.



   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any unpolluted waters such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sanitary sewer.



(2004 Code, § 53.035)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.036  STORM SEWERS.



   (A)   Storm water and all other unpolluted water shall be discharged
to sewers which are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Council and other regulatory agencies.



   (B)   (1)   Cooling water. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or
process water may be discharged, on approval of the Council and approval and
the issuance of a discharge permit by the MPCA to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.



      (2)   Sump pumps. No water from any roof, surface, ground
water sump pump, footing tile, swimming pool or other natural precipitation
shall be discharged directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewer system. A
permanent installation shall be one that provides for year-round discharge
capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or structure, or
is connected to a storm sewer. It shall consist of a rigid discharge line,
without valving or quick connections for altering the path of the discharge
with a check valve and an air gap.



(2004 Code, § 53.036)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988; Ord. 01-291, passed
5-22-2001)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.037  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; NPDES PERMIT.



   (A)   Prohibitions and limitations. Except as hereinafter provided,
it is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged any of
the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:



      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their
nature or quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction
with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other
way to the wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;



      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous
solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, that could injure or interfere with any waste
treatment or sludge disposal process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals or create a public nuisance in the receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment facility. Toxic pollutants shall be as defined in standards issued
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);



      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0, or in
excess of 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater
treatment facilities;



      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in public sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw,
shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper
dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage
grinders; and



      (5)   The following described substances, materials, waters or
waste shall be limited in discharges to sanitary sewer systems to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sanitary sewers,
wastewater treatment process or equipment; will not have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; and will not otherwise endanger lives, limbs or public
property, or constitute a nuisance. The Council may set limitations more
stringent than those established below if more stringent limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. The Council will give consideration
to the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sanitary sewers, the wastewater
treatment facility and other pertinent factors. Wastes or wastewaters
discharged to the sanitary sewers shall not exceed the following limitations:



         (a)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);



         (b)   Wastewater containing more than 25 mg/l of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil
origin;



         (c)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing
floatable oils, fat or grease;



         (d)   Any unground garbage. Garbage grinders may be
connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on
the premises or when served by caterers;



         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium,
copper, zinc and other toxic and non-conventional pollutants to such a degree
that the concentration exceeds levels specified by federal, state and local
authorities;



         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing
substances exceeding limits which may be established by the Council or limits
established by any federal or state statute, rule or regulation;



         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Council in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;



         (h)   Any waters or wastes containing substances which
are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment
processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to a degree so that the
wastewater treatment facility effluent cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters;



         (i)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with
other water or wastes in the sanitary sewer system, release obnoxious gases,
form suspended solids which interfere with the collection system or create a
condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes;



         (j)   Materials which exert or cause:



            1.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or
chlorine requirements in quantities so as to constitute a significant load on
the wastewater treatment facility;



            2.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of
wastes constituting slugs, as defined herein;



            3.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended
solids (such as, but not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime
residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium
sulfate); or



            4.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not
limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).



         (k)   Incompatible pollutants in excess of the allowed
limits as determined by local, state and federal laws and regulations in
reference to pretreatment standards developed by the Environmental Protection
Agency, 40 C.F.R. part 403, as amended from time to time.



   (B)   NPDES permit. It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit
a discharge into the sanitary sewers that would cause a violation of the
city’s NPDES permit and any modifications thereof.



(2004 Code, § 53.037)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.038  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.



   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting any special agreement between the Council and any person whereby
a waste of unusual strength or character may be admitted to the wastewater
treatment facilities, either before or after pretreatment; provided that,
there is no impairment of the functioning of the wastewater treatment
facilities by reason of the admission of those wastes, and no extra costs are
incurred by the city without recompense by the person; and, further provided
that, all rates and provisions set forth in this chapter are recognized and
adhered to.



(2004 Code, § 53.038)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.039  NEW CONNECTIONS; TREATMENT CAPACITY REQUIREMENT.



   New connections to the city’s sanitary sewer system will be allowed
only if there is available capacity in all of the downstream wastewater
treatment facilities.



(2004 Code, § 53.039)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.040  DILUTION NOT A TREATMENT.



   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any manner
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with § 53.037(A) of this code, or
national categorical pretreatment standards.



(2004 Code, § 53.040)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99




INDUSTRIAL WASTES; CONTROL




§ 53.055  DATA SUBMISSION.



   The Council may require each person who discharges or seeks to
discharge industrial wastes to a public sewer to prepare and file with the
Council, at times as it determines, a report that shall include pertinent
data relating to the quantity and characteristics of the wastes discharged to
the wastewater treatment facilities. In the case of a new connection, the
Council may require that this report be prepared prior to making the
connection to the public sewers.



(2004 Code, § 53.050)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.056  INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES; COUNCIL AUTHORITY.



   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters or wastes contain substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §§ 53.035 through 53.040 of this chapter
and which, in the judgment of the Council, have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater treatment facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or health or constitute a public
nuisance, the Council may:



   (A)   Reject the wastes;



   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(b), and all addendums thereof;



   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and



   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 53.051)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.057  CONTROL MANHOLES.



   (A)   Each person discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer
shall, at the discretion of the Council, construct and maintain one or more
control manholes or access points to facilitate observation, measurement and
sampling of wastes, including sanitary sewage.



   (B)   (1)   Control manholes or access facilities shall be
located and built in a manner acceptable to the Council. If measuring and
sampling devices are to be permanently installed, they shall be of a type
acceptable to the Council.



      (2)   Control manholes, access facilities and related
equipment shall be installed by the person discharging the waste, at his or
her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be in safe
condition, accessible and in proper operating condition at all times. Plans
for installation of the control manholes or access facilities and related
equipment shall be approved by the Council prior to the beginning of
construction.



(2004 Code, § 53.052)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.058  FLOW MEASUREMENT; WATER AND WASTE METERS.



   (A)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing
sewer service charges shall be the metered water consumption of the property
owner as shown in the records of meter readings maintained by the Water
Department or utility, except as noted in division (B) below.



   (B)   Metering of waste. Devices for measuring the volume of waste
discharged may be required by the Council if this volume cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records. Metering devices for
determining the volume of waste shall be installed, owned and maintained by
the person discharging the wastewater. Following approval and installation,
these meters may not be removed without the consent of the Council.



(2004 Code, § 53.053)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.059  WASTE SAMPLING.



   (A)   Industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to periodic inspection and a determination of character and
concentration of the wastes. The determination shall be made by the industry
as often as may be deemed necessary by the Council.



   (B)   Samples shall be collected in a manner so as to be
representative of the composition of the wastes. The sampling may be
accomplished either manually or by the use of mechanical equipment acceptable
to the Council.



   (C)   Installation, operation and maintenance of the sampling
facilities shall be the responsibility of the person discharging the waste
and shall be subject to the approval of the Council. Access to sampling
locations shall be granted to the Council or its duly authorized
representatives at all times. Every care shall be exercised in the collection
of samples to ensure their preservation in a state comparable to that at the
time the sample was taken.



(2004 Code, § 53.054)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.060  PRETREATMENT.



   Persons discharging industrial wastes into any public sewer may be
required to pretreat those wastes, if the Council determines pretreatment is
necessary to protect the wastewater treatment facilities or prevent the
discharge of incompatible pollutants. In that event, the person shall
provide, at his or her expense, those pretreatment or processing facilities
as may be determined necessary to render wastes acceptable for admission to
the sanitary sewers.



(2004 Code, § 53.055)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.061  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.



   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Council, they are necessary to the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing floatable grease in amounts in excess of those specified in
this chapter, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that, these interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the Council, and shall be located so as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In maintaining these interceptors,
the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by
appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the
dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the Council.
Disposal of the collected materials performed by owner’s personnel or
currently licensed waste disposal firms must be in accordance with currently
acceptable State Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) rules and regulations.



(2004 Code, § 53.056)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.062  ANALYSIS.



   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods and with the federal
regulations of 40 C.F.R. part 136, “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures
for Analysis of Pollutants”, as amended from time to time. Sampling
methods, location, time, durations and frequencies are to be determined on an
individual basis subject to approval by the Council. Determination of the
character and concentration of the industrial wastes shall be made by the
person discharging them, or the person’s agent, as designated and required
by the Council. The Council may also make its own analyses on the wastes, and
these determinations shall be binding as a basis for sewer service charges.



(2004 Code, § 53.057)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.063  TREATMENT FACILITIES; APPROVAL REQUIRED.



   (A)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed flow equalization, pretreatment or grease and sand
interceptor facilities shall be submitted for review and approval of the
Council prior to the start of their construction if the effluent from the
facilities is to be discharged into the public sewers.



   (B)   No construction of these facilities shall commence until
approval has been granted.



(2004 Code, § 53.058)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99




INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER; PRETREATMENT




§ 53.075  PURPOSE AND POLICY; APPLICATION.



   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges
to the city’s wastewater treatment system and enables the city to comply
with applicable state and federal laws. The objectives of this subchapter are:



      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
wastewater treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the
system, including the use or disposal of the sludge;



      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
wastewater treatment system which will pass through the system inadequately
treated into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
and



      (3)   To improve the opportunities to recycle and reclaim
wastewaters and sludges.



   (B)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of discharges into
the city’s wastewater treatment system through the issuance of permits to
certain users and through enforcement of the general requirements for the
other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user
reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.



   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside
the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the
city’s wastewater treatment system. Except as otherwise provided herein,
the City Engineer shall implement, administer and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 53.070)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.076  DEFINITIONS.



   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.



      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and
concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l)).



      GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS. The general pretreatment
regulations for existing and new sources of pollution promulgated by the EPA
under § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and (c) and
found at 40 C.F.R. part 403.



      INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who discharges to the wastewater
treatment system liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial, manufacturing, trade or business establishments, or from the
development of any natural resource.



      INTERFERENCE. A discharge by an industrial user which, alone or
in conjunction with discharges by other sources, inhibits or disrupts the
wastewater collection and treatment facilities, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal and which is a cause of
a violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES permit (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or state disposal
system permit, or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the
city in accordance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or
permits issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): §
405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §1345, the Solid Waste Disposal
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq. (SWDA) (including Title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA),
and including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substance Control Act, being 15 U.S.C.
§§ 2601 et seq., and the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act,
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.



      MINNESOTA PRETREATMENT RULES. Minn. Rules Ch. 7049 that implement
the general pretreatment regulations, federal categorical pretreatment
standards and the authorities of M.S. § 115.03, Subd. 1, par. (e), clause
(2). This definition may also be used in the singular as MINNESOTA
PRETREATMENT RULE.



      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National
pretreatment standards specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants
or pollutant properties which may be discharged or introduced into the
wastewater treatment system by specific industrial users.



      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES PERMIT.
Any permit or requirements issued by the State Pollution Control Agency
(MPCA) pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, for
the purpose of regulating the discharge of wastewater, industrial wastes or
other wastes under the authority of § 402 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1342.



      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such
as air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only
pollutant added to the water is heat.



      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation,
public agency and any other organization or group of individuals, public or
private.



      pH. The logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of the
concentration of hydrogen ions in moles per liter.



      PRETREATMENT.



         (a)   The process of equalizing or reducing the amount
of pollutants, eliminating pollutants or altering the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing the pollutants into the wastewater
treatment system.



         (b)   The reduction, elimination or alteration may be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes or
other means, except as prohibited by § 53.078(D) of this code.



      PUBLICALLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as
defined in M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 21, that is owned by a state or municipality
as defined by § 502(4) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1362(4) and M.S.
§ 115.41, as it may be amended from time to time. This term includes POTW
PLANT and POTW AUTHORITY.



      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the
wastewater treatment system which:



         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per
average work day;



         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the
wastewater treatment system;



         (c)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants as defined
pursuant to § 307 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, or Minnesota Statutes
and Minn. Rules; or



         (d)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air
emissions generated by the system.



      SLUG. Any waste discharge into the wastewater treatment system
which, in concentration of any given constituent, except pH, or in quantity
of flow, exceeds four times the average concentration or flow rate for a
normal operating day.



      STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT. Any permit, including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof, issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a treatment system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01(8), as it may be amended from time to time.



      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.



      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which
is removable by a standard glass fiber filter.



      USER. Any person who discharges, causes or permits the discharge
of wastewater into the wastewater treatment system.



      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic
wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions, together with any ground water, surface water and storm water
that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into
or permitted to enter the wastewater treatment system.



      WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT or PERMIT. A permit issued by the
city to an industrial user to use the city’s wastewater treatment system,
as established in § 53.081 of this code.



      WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Any devices, facilities,
structures, equipment or works owned or used by the city for the purpose of
transmission, storage or treatment of industrial and domestic wastewater,
including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, wastewater collection system,
pumping, power and other equipment, and their appurtenances; extensions,
improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; and any works,
including land, that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is
used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from that treatment.



      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.



   (B)   Terms not otherwise defined herein shall be as given in M.S.
Ch. 115 and 116, as they may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 53.071)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 14-0722, passed
3-11-2014)



§ 53.077  DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged, directly or indirectly, any of the following described substances
into the wastewater treatment system or to any public sewer:



      (1)   Any combustible, flammable or explosive liquids, solids
or gases which by their nature or quantity will or are likely to cause,
either alone or by interaction with other substances, a fire or explosion or
be injurious to the wastewater treatment system or to its operation. At no
time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point
of discharge into the system or at any point in the system, be more than 5%,
nor shall there be any single reading over 10%, of the lower explosive limit
(LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, fuel oil, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates and hydrides;



      (2)   Any solids or viscous substances which will or are
likely to cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or interference with the
operation of the wastewater treatment system. These include, but are not
limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch in any
dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, gas tar, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil,
mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;



      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than
10.0, or having a corrosive property that will or is likely to cause damage
or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater treatment
system;



      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic or poisonous pollutants
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create a toxic effect in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment system. A toxic pollutant shall
include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified pursuant to §
307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);



      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids,
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, will or are likely
to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or prevent entry into a sewer
for its monitoring, maintenance and repair;



      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in
the treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes, vegetable
tanning solutions and printing inks;



      (7)   Heat in amounts which will or are likely to inhibit
biological activity in the wastewater treatment system resulting in
interference or damage to the system, but in no case heat in quantities so
that the industrial wastewater temperature is greater than 150°F (65.6°C)
at its point of discharge to the system, or heat causing, individually or in
combination with other wastewater, the influent at the wastewater treatment
plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C);



      (8)   Any slug load discharged in a volume or strength so as
to cause interference to the wastewater treatment system;



      (9)   Any unpolluted water, including non-contact cooling
water, rain water, storm water or ground water, unless there is no prudent
and feasible alternative;



      (10)   Any wastewater containing fat, wax, grease or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 150 mg/l which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65.6°C); and any
wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral origin of
greater than 100 mg/l, whether or not emulsified;



      (11)   Any wastewater containing inert suspended solids
(including Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or dissolved
solids (including sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in quantities that will
or are likely to cause interference with the wastewater treatment system; or



      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or
isotopes of a half-life or concentration so that they are in non-compliance
with standards issued by the appropriate authority having control over their
use and which will or are likely to cause damage or hazards to the wastewater
treatment system or personnel operating it.



   (B)   In addition to these prohibitions, it is unlawful for any
person to discharge to any public sewer any discharge which causes
interference, as defined, with the wastewater treatment system. Pollutants in
the effluent from an industrial user shall not be considered to cause
interference where the industrial user is in compliance with specific
prohibitions or standards developed by federal, state or local governments.
Where the industrial user is in compliance with these specific prohibitions
or standards, and pollutants in the effluent from the industrial user’s
facility nevertheless are deemed to have caused or significantly contributed
to a violation of any requirements of the city’s NPDES or state disposal
system permit, and are likely to cause such a violation in the future, the
city may take appropriate action to develop and enforce specific effluent
limits for that industrial user to ensure renewed and continued compliance
with the city’s NPDES or state disposal system permit.



(2004 Code, § 53.072)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 14-0722, passed
3-11-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.078  LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.



   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards. National
categorical pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all users who are
subject to those standards in any instance where they are more stringent than
the limitations in this subchapter unless the City Engineer has applied for
and obtained from the MPCA approval to modify the specific limits in the
national categorical pretreatment standards. When requested, an application
for modification of the national categorical pretreatment standards will be
considered for submittal by the City Engineer when the wastewater treatment
system achieves consistent removal of the pollutants. Consistent removal
shall be defined as in 40 C.F.R. part 403, “General Pretreatment
Regulations for Existing and New Sources”. Conditional revisions of
national categorical pretreatment standards may be made by the city in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403, “General Pretreatment Regulations for
Existing and New Sources” if requested by an industry in accordance with
requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 403.



   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on
discharge shall be met by all users who are subject to those standards in any
instance in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and
limitations or those in this or any other applicable provision of this code
of ordinances.



   (C)   City’s right of revision. The city reserves the right to
establish by ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on
discharge to the wastewater treatment system if deemed necessary to comply
with the objectives presented in this subchapter.



   (D)   Dilution. It is unlawful for any person to increase the use of
potable or process water or in any way attempt to dilute a discharge as a
partial or complete substitution for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the limitations set forth in this subchapter or applicable pretreatment
standards.



   (E)   Supplementary limitations.



      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge wastewater
containing the following substances in excess of the amounts contained in
their wastewater discharge permit.



      (2)   Once limits are appropriated for individual industries,
those industries’ rights to discharge up to those limits shall not be
reduced by permit limits issued later to new industries. Reduction of limits
may be necessary to achieve the objectives stated in this subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 53.073)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985; Ord. 14-0722, passed
3-11-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.079  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES; NOTIFICATION.



   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharges
of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this subchapter.
Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the user’s cost and expense.



   (B)   Users shall notify the City Engineer immediately upon having a
slug or accidental discharge of substances or wastewater in violation of this
subchapter in order to enable countermeasures to be taken by the City
Engineer to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment system and the
receiving waters. The notification shall include location of discharge, date
and time thereof, description of accidentally discharged waste including an
estimate of concentration and volume, and corrective actions. These
notifications will not relieve users of liability for any expense, loss or
damage to the wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any
fines imposed on the city on account thereof under any state or federal law.
The city may choose to take no further action or to take action in accordance
with §§ 53.089(A), 53.090 and 53.091.



   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted in a prominent place on
the user’s premises advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug
or accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may
cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.



(2004 Code, § 53.074)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.080  CHARGES AND FEES; PURPOSE.



   (A)   Fees; purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide
for the recovery of costs from users of the wastewater treatment system for
the implementation and administration of the program established herein. The
applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the city’s schedule of
charges and fees, to be prepared from time to time by the City Engineer and
approved by the Council.



   (B)   Charges and fees. The Council shall adopt charges and fees
which may include:



      (1)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance
procedures;



      (2)   Fees for permit applications;



      (3)   Appeal fees; and



      (4)   Other fees as the City Engineer may deem necessary to
carry out the requirements contained herein.



(2004 Code, § 53.075)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.081  WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.



   (A)   Mandatory permits. All industries proposing to connect or to
commence a new discharge to the wastewater treatment system shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into the
wastewater treatment system if the discharge would result in the industry
being classified as a significant industrial user. All existing significant
industrial users or industrial users subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards under § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, being , being 33
U.S.C. § 1317(b) and (c), connected to or discharging into the wastewater
treatment system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days
after the effective date of this subchapter.



   (B)   Permit applications.



      (1)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall complete and file with the City Engineer a permit application in the
form as required. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, and
proposed new users shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting or
discharging to the wastewater treatment system.



      (2)   The City Engineer will evaluate the data furnished by
the user and may require additional information. A wastewater discharge
permit shall not be issued until an application is complete. After evaluation
and acceptance of the data furnished, the City Engineer shall issue a
wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.



   (C)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be
expressly subject to all provisions of this subchapter and all other
applicable regulations, user charges and fees established by the city.
Permits may contain the following:



      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for
the wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater treatment system;



      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater
constituents and characteristics, in terms of concentration, mass limitations
or other appropriate units;



      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge
or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;



      (4)   Requirements for installation, maintenance and operation
of sampling and monitoring facilities;



      (5)   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance
of pretreatment facilities;



      (6)   Specifications for self-monitoring programs which may
include sampling locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types
and standards for tests and reporting schedule;



      (7)   Compliance schedules;



      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or
discharge reports;



      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the City Engineer, but in no
case less than three years, and affording the City Engineer access thereto;



      (10)   Requirements for notification to and acceptance by the
City Engineer for any new introduction of wastewater constituents or of any
substantial change in the volume or character of the wastewater constituents
being introduced into the wastewater treatment system if they may have a
significant impact on the sewer collection or treatment systems;



      (11)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental
discharges as provided in § 53.079 of this code, and reporting of permit
violations;



      (12)   Requirements for disposal of sludges, floats, skimmings
and the like; and



      (13)   Other conditions deemed appropriate by the city to
ensure compliance with this subchapter.



   (D)   Permit duration and renewal.



      (1)   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not
to exceed five years. The user shall apply for permit renewal a minimum of 90
days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit by filing with
the City Engineer a renewal application in the form as required.



      (2)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the City Engineer during the term of the permit as
limitations or requirements as identified in this subchapter are modified or
other just cause exists. The City Engineer, upon a determination that the
permittee has been in compliance with the expiring permit and is capable of
complying with the renewed permit, shall renew a wastewater discharge permit
upon the terms and conditions specified for an additional time period, not to
exceed five years. The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in his
or her permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any
changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule agreeable to the permittee and the City Engineer for compliance.



   (E)   Permit modifications.



      (1)   A wastewater discharge permit may be modified, in whole
or in part, by the City Engineer during its term for the following causes:



         (a)   Amendment of this subchapter where permit
provisions are affected;



         (b)   A change in the city’s wastewater treatment
system which results in the permittee’s discharge having a significantly
different and negative impact on the system;



         (c)   A change in the permittee’s wastewater volume or
characteristics which will or is likely to have, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, a negative impact on the wastewater treatment
system; or



         (d)   Promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard. Within nine months of the promulgation of a national
categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users
subject to that standard shall be revised to require compliance with the
standard within the time frame prescribed by that standard. All users,
whether or not they have an existing wastewater discharge permit, shall apply
for a new permit as required by this section within 150 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.



      (2)   Any modifications in the wastewater discharge permit
shall specify a reasonable time schedule for compliance.



   (F)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall
not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different
premises or a new or changed operation without the approval of the City
Engineer. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and
conditions of the existing permit.



(2004 Code, § 53.076)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.082  SELF-MONITORING REPORTS; MONITORING FACILITIES.



   (A)   Self-monitoring reports.



      (1)   A condition of the wastewater discharge permit shall
include the completion and submittal of accurate routine self-monitoring
reports to the City Engineer in the form as required. The nature and
frequency of routine reporting shall be based upon the information provided
in the permit application form. The City Engineer may modify the reporting
frequency for a particular permittee based on the permittee’s industrial
waste characteristics. Permittees subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards shall submit reports to the City Engineer in
accordance with the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards.
These reports shall be submitted to the City Engineer during the months of
July and January, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment
standard or by the City Engineer. The report shall indicate the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by pretreatment
standards and include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting
period exceeded the average daily flow.



      (2)   Wastewater discharge records of a permittee shall be
kept by the permittee for a period of not less than three years. The
permittee shall provide the City Engineer reasonable access to these records
during normal business hours. A permittee subject to an applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard shall maintain all records required by 40
C.F.R. part 403, “General Pretreatment Regulations”.



   (B)   Monitoring facilities.



      (1)   Each permittee that is required to do so by the City
Engineer, shall provide and operate, at the permittee’s own expense,
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow measurement of
the building sewer and internal drainage systems at the city’s request.
Whenever possible, existing manholes, cleanouts and water meters will be used
to meet these requirements. The monitoring facility should normally be
situated on the user’s premises, but the City Engineer may, when such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or right-of-way and located
so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.



      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling
manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for
analysis. The facility and sampling and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the
expense of the user.



      (3)   Whether constructed on a public or private property, the
sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
City Engineer’s requirements and all applicable local construction
standards and specifications. If suitable monitoring sites are not in
existence, construction shall be completed within 90 days following written
notification by the City Engineer, unless a time extension is otherwise
granted by the City Engineer.



(2004 Code, § 53.077)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.083  INSPECTION, SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS.



   (A)   The City Engineer shall have the right to inspect the
facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this subchapter is
being met and all requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants
of premises where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the City
Engineer ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection, sampling or records examination, or in the
performance of any of their duties. The City Engineer, MPCA and EPA shall
have the right to set up on the user’s property those devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring or metering
operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into the premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with any security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, the City Engineer, MPCA and EPA will
be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.



   (B)   Representative samples of a user’s industrial wastewater
shall be collected on normal operating days and in accordance with guidelines
as established from time to time. Industrial users subject to general
pretreatment regulations shall sample in accordance with the general
pretreatment regulations. Self-monitoring facilities for industrial users who
are not subject to the general pretreatment regulations shall be at a
location before wastewater is mixed with other discharges or at a point where
waste can be adequately monitored.



   (C)   Test procedures for the analysis of pollutants for permit
applications and routine self-monitoring shall conform to the guidelines
established in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and 40 C.F.R. part 403, “General
Pretreatment Regulations”.



(2004 Code, § 53.078)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.084  PRETREATMENT.



   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment before
discharging, directly or indirectly, into the wastewater treatment system as
required to comply with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all
national categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as
specified by the federal pretreatment regulations.



   (B)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be
provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.



   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available by the City Engineer to officials of the EPA or MPCA
upon request.



(2004 Code, § 53.079)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.085  CONFIDENTIALITY.



   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from applications,
permits, monitoring programs and inspections shall be available to the public
or other government agencies without restriction unless the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City Engineer
that the release of this information would divulge information, processes or
methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.



   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, and until
that time as the information is determined not to be confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public but shall be made
available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to
this subchapter, the NPDES permit, state disposal system permit or the
pretreatment programs; provided, however, that, those portions of a report
shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information. Information accepted by the City Engineer as
confidential shall not be transmitted to any governmental agency by the City
Engineer until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user by
registered mail.



(2004 Code, § 53.080)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.086  SLUDGES GENERATED; DISPOSAL.



   Sludges, floats, skimmings and the like generated by a pretreatment
facility shall not be disposed, directly or indirectly, into the wastewater
treatment system. These sludges shall be contained, transported and disposed
of in accordance with all federal, state and local regulations.



(2004 Code, § 53.081)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.087  FINAL COMPLIANCE DATE; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards or in the case of the commencement of a new
discharge to the wastewater discharge system, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the City Engineer a
report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the
discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user’s facility which are limited by those
pretreatment standards or requirements.



   (B)   The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not,
what additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the facility into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards
or requirements. This statement shall be signed by the user and certified by
a qualified professional.



(2004 Code, § 53.082)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.088  EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE AND PERMIT.



   (A)   The City Engineer may suspend the wastewater treatment service
of a user and a wastewater discharge permit (after informal notice to the
discharger) when suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents
or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons, to the environment or to the wastewater treatment system
or would cause the city to violate any condition of its NPDES or state
disposal system permit. The City Engineer shall follow up with a formal
notice to a designated representative of the user within an hour after the
informal notice is given to the user.



   (B)   (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater
treatment service or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop
the discharge. In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the City Engineer shall take steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent
or minimize damage to the wastewater treatment system or endangerment to any
individuals. The city may also take action in accordance with § 53.091 of
this chapter.



      (2)   The City Engineer shall reinstate the wastewater
discharge permit and the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the non-complying discharge or conditions creating the threat
of imminent or substantial danger as set forth above.



      (3)   A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the slug or accidental discharge and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the City
Engineer within 15 days of the date of occurrence.



(2004 Code, § 53.083)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.089  NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION; CORRECTION; PERMIT REVOCATION.



   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the City Engineer finds
that any user has violated or is violating this subchapter, the wastewater
discharge permit, or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained
herein, the City Engineer may serve upon that user a written notice stating
the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the notice, unless
a shorter time frame is necessary due to the nature of the violation, a plan
for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the city by the
user. If the plan is satisfactory to the City Engineer and the user complies
with the plan, the City Engineer may or may not take further action against
the user. If the plan is not satisfactory to the City Engineer, the city may
take action in accordance with § 53.090 of this chapter. If the user does
not comply with the plan, the city may take action in accordance with §
53.091 of this chapter.



   (B)   Permit revocation. In accordance with the procedures of this
subchapter, the City Engineer may revoke the permit of any user who fails to
factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of its
discharge; who misrepresents or fails to disclose fully all relevant facts
when obtaining a wastewater discharge permit; who fails to report significant
changes in wastewater constituents or characteristics; who refuses reasonable
access to the user’s premises for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
or who violates conditions of its permit, this subchapter or applicable state
and federal regulations.



(2004 Code, § 53.084)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.090  HEARING.



   (A)   Notice of hearing. If the violation is not corrected by timely
compliance, the City Engineer may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause before the Council why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the Council
regarding the violation, the reason why the action is to be taken and the
proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause before the
Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may
be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.



   (B)   Hearing officials. The Council may itself conduct the hearing
and take the evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or
employee to:



      (1)   Issue, in the name of the Council, notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the protection of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in the hearings;



      (2)   Take the evidence; and



      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Council
for action thereon.



   (C)   Transcripts. At any hearing held pursuant to this subchapter,
testimony taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The
transcript, so recorded, will be made available to any member of the public
or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual charges therefor.



   (D)   Issuance of orders.



      (1)   After the Council has reviewed the evidence, it may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed or existing treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as
are necessary and appropriate may be issued. The orders may also revoke the
user’s wastewater discharge permit if this subchapter or wastewater
discharge permit are violated.



      (2)   If the user violates an order, the city may take action
in accordance with § 53.091 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 53.085)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.091  LEGAL ACTION.



   If any person discharges wastewater, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the wastewater treatment system contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the
city, the City Attorney may, following the authorization of that action by
the Council, commence an action for appropriate legal and equitable relief.



(2004 Code, § 53.086)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.092  PUBLICATION OF VIOLATORS.



   (A)   A list of the users who were significantly violating
applicable pretreatment requirements or national categorical pretreatment
standards during the 12 previous months shall be annually published by the
city in a local newspaper. The notification shall also summarize any
enforcement actions taken against the user during the same 12 months.



   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      SIGNIFICANT VIOLATIONS. Violations which remain uncorrected 45
days after notification of non-compliance, which are a part of a pattern of
non-compliance over a 12-month period or which involve a failure to
accurately report non-compliance.



   (C)   Users will be notified by letter prior to publication of a
list if they are included on the list, and will be given one week to respond
to the City Engineer regarding the appropriateness of their inclusion.



(2004 Code, § 53.087)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.093  APPEAL.



   (A)   Any interested party shall have the right to request in
writing an interpretation or ruling on any matter covered by this subchapter
and shall be entitled to a written reply from the city.



   (B)   Any decision of the City Engineer in the enforcement of this
subchapter may be appealed to the Council by filing a written petition with
the City Administrator within 30 days of the City Engineer’s ruling. The
petition shall specify in detail the matter or matters involved and every
ground or basis on which objections are made. The petition shall show the
names, addresses and telephone numbers of all objectors and their attorney at
law or spokesperson. The filing of a petition in accordance with the
requirements herein shall stay all proceedings unless the City Engineer shall
file within 72 hours after the filing of a petition a certificate stating
that a stay would cause peril to life or property or specifying other good
reason. The Council shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the petition
or appeal and give due notice of the time and place of the hearing to parties
named in the petition as attorney or spokesperson. The hearing shall be open
to the public. Petitioners shall be given full opportunity to present
evidence in support of their petition, after which the City Engineer may
present evidence in support of his or her decision.



   (C)   The Council shall decide the appeal within a reasonable time
and notify the attorney or spokesperson. The minutes of the Council shall
constitute the official record of the petition, hearing and decision. Any
party desiring a transcript of the proceedings shall furnish a qualified
court reporter at their own expense.



(2004 Code, § 53.088)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)



§ 53.094  COSTS OF DAMAGE.



   Following discussions between the city and users and a thorough review
of the problem, and a final decision as to the cause, any user violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter, or who discharges or causes a discharge
producing a deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the
city’s wastewater treatment system, shall become liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage caused by that violation or discharge. The City
Administrator may add to the user’s charges and fees the costs assessed for
any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by the violation or
discharge. Any refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation
of this subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 53.089)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.095  FALSIFYING INFORMATION UNLAWFUL.



   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statements,
representation or certification in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this subchapter
or the wastewater discharge permit, or to falsify, tamper with or knowingly
render inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this
subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 53.090)  (Ord. 727, passed 12-12-1985)  Penalty, see § 10.99




RATES AND CHARGES




§ 53.110  SEWER USE MEASUREMENT; WATER METERS; PRIVATE WATER SOURCES.



   (A)   Sewer users served by water utility water meters. There is
hereby levied and assessed upon each lot, parcel of land, building or
premises having a connection with the wastewater collection system and being
served with water solely by the water utility, a sewer service charge based,
in part, on the quantity of water used, as measured by the water utility
water meter used upon the premises.



   (B)   Sewer users served by private wells. If any person discharging
wastewater into the public sanitary sewers procures any part or all of his or
her water from sources other than the water utility, all or part of which is
discharged into the sanitary sewers, the property shall have water meters
installed by the city at the property owner’s expense for the purpose of
determining the volume of water obtained from these sources. Where sewer
meters are already installed, new water meters will not be required. The
water meters shall be furnished by the city and installed under its
supervision, all costs being at the expense of the person requiring the
meter. The city will charge for each meter a rental charge set by the city to
compensate for the cost of furnishing and servicing the meter. The rental
charge shall be billed at the time the sewer service charge is billed.



(2004 Code, § 53.100)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.111  DEDUCT METERS.



   If a user feels that a significant amount of metered water does not
reach the sanitary sewer, a customer may avail himself or herself of one of
the following options.



   (A)   The customer may request the Council to have additional meters
or metered services installed as are necessary to calculate the volume of
water not discharged to the sanitary sewer (i.e., a deduct meter), or the
customer may request the Council to have a meter installed to measure the
actual amount of sewage discharged to the sanitary sewer (i.e., a sewage
meter). Requests for a second meter or metered services must be made in
writing to the Council. In the event the Council agrees to the installations,
the customer shall be charged all costs attendant thereto including, but not
limited to, a meter yoke for each meter (to be installed by a licensed
plumber), meter rental (the meter will be owned by the city and subject to
access and inspection by the city personnel at all reasonable times) in an
amount set annually by the Council, remote reading device(s) if necessary and
labor and miscellaneous parts and supplies. No provision shall be made, nor
shall any means be taken, to route water from any deduct meter to the
customer’s general distribution system. In addition to the remedies set
forth in § 53.151 of this chapter, any violation of this chapter will result
in nullification of the deduct readings and removal of the deduct meter.



   (B)   In the event it is physically impractical or impossible to
install metering equipment, the customer may request the Council to take
means as it deems necessary to formulate an estimate of the amount of water
not being discharged into the sanitary sewerage system or, conversely, the
amount of actual sewage discharged thereto.



   (C)   (1)   Neither of the options set forth in this section
shall be applicable or available to customers for reasons which are attendant
to use of water for the filling of pools or watering of lawns and outdoor
greenery.



      (2)   This seasonal use of water (that does not reach the
sewer system) has been figured into the rates for the second and third
quarter. The residential water usage for the second and third quarters are
compared with the water usage for the quarter containing the month of
December (provided, this quarter includes a full quarter of water usage). The
water bills for the second and third quarters will be based on the lowest
measured water usage of the second quarter bill and the third quarter bill
compared to the quarter water bill containing the month of December.



(2004 Code, § 53.101)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.112  TREATMENT WORKS; OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT COSTS.



   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the user’s
proportionate contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.



(2004 Code, § 53.102)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.113  SERVICE CHARGES; USER CATEGORIES.



   (A)   Sewer service charge unit costs. For purposes of determining
proportionate user charges, determine the annual OM&R budget. Calculation of
unit costs for treatment of flow, BOD, suspended solids (TSS) and nitrogen
(TKN) shall be determined and fixed annually in the sewer service charge
system according to the procedures contained in Appendix E of the March 1988
report entitled, “Sewer Service Charge System for Wastewater Treatment
Facilities” for the city.



   (B)   Category A sewer service charge. Calculation of Category A
sewer service charges shall be determined and fixed annually in the sewer
service charge system according to the procedures contained in Appendix E of
the above referenced March 1988 rate study report.



   (C)   Category B sewer service charge.



      (1)   The Category B sewer service charge shall be computed in
accordance with the formula presented below:



         T = FQ + (V x CV) + .00834 V (B x CB + S x CS + N x CN)



         where:  T = total sewer service charge; FQ = fixed
quarterly charge; B = concentration of BOD in mg/l in the wastewater above
200 mg/l; S = concentration of suspended solids in mg/l in the wastewater
above 300 mg/l; N = concentration of nitrogen in mg/l in the wastewater above
45 mg/l; V = wastewater volume in 1,000 gallons; CV = Category A volume
charge cost per 1,000 gallons; CB = cost per pound of BOD; CS = cost per
pound of suspended solids; CN = cost per pound of nitrogen; and 0.00834 =
conversion factor.



      (2)   The above formula shall not be construed to give credits
for a waste strength less than domestic concentrations for BOD, suspended
solids or nitrogen.



      (3)   The charge for BOD in mg/l in the wastewater above 200
mg/l, based on the total pounds of BOD, shall be $0.32 per pound.



   (D)   Reassignment of sewer users. The Council will reassign sewer
users into appropriate sewer service charge categories if wastewater sampling
programs or other related information indicate a change of categories is
necessary.



(2004 Code, § 53.103)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988; Ord. 05-400, passed
4-12-2005)



§ 53.114  DISPOSITION OF OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FUNDS.



   All sewer service charge revenues collected for replacement costs shall
be deposited in a separate and distinct fund to be used solely for
replacement costs as defined in § 53.001 of this chapter. All sewer service
charge revenues collected for other operation and maintenance expenses shall
also be deposited in a separate and distinct fund. All revenues for the
replacement fund and for operation and maintenance of the wastewater
treatment facilities shall be used solely for the replacement fund and
operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment facilities.



(2004 Code, § 53.104)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.115  SEPTIC TANK SLUDGE AND HOLDING TANK SEWAGE; DISPOSAL PERMIT;
FEES; LIABILITY.



   (A)   No person in the business of gathering and disposing of septic
tank sludge or holding tank sewage shall transfer this material into any
disposal area or public sewer unless a permit for disposal has been first
obtained from the Council. Written application for this permit shall be made
to the Council and shall state the name and address of the applicant, the
number of its disposal units and the make, model and license number of each
unit. Permits shall be non-transferable except in the case of replacement of
the disposal unit for which a permit shall have been originally issued. The
permit may be obtained upon payment of the annual permit fee. The time and
place of disposal will be designated by the Council. The Council may impose
conditions as it deems necessary on any permit granted.



   (B)   (1)   Any person or party disposing of septic tank sludge
or holding tank sewage agrees to carry public liability insurance in an
amount not less than $100,000 to protect any and all persons or property from
injury or damage caused in any way or manner by an act, or the failure to
act, by any of the person’s employees. The person shall furnish a
certificate certifying this insurance to be in full force and effect.



      (2)   All materials in the septic tank sludge or holding tank
sewage disposed of into the treatment system shall be of domestic origin, or
compatible pollutants only, and the person agrees that he or she will comply
with the provisions of any and all applicable city code provisions and shall
not deposit or drain any gasoline, oil, acid, alkali, grease, rags, waste,
volatile or flammable liquids or other deleterious substances into the public
sewers, nor allow any earth, sand or other solid material to pass into any
part of the wastewater treatment facilities.



      (3)   Persons with a permit for disposing of septic tank
sludge or holding tank sewage into the wastewater treatment facilities shall
be charged the sewer service charges for these users as calculated annually
in accordance with the procedures contained in Appendix E of the March 1988
report entitled, “Sewer Service Charge System for Wastewater Treatment
Facilities” for the city.



      (4)   The person disposing of septic tank sludge or holding
tank sewage agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the city from any and all
liability and claims for damages arising out of or resulting from work and
labor performed.



(2004 Code, § 53.105)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.116  TOXIC POLLUTANTS; SURCHARGES.



   Any person discharging toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the
cost of managing the effluent or sludge from the city’s wastewater
treatment facility shall pay for those increased costs, as may be determined
by the Council.



(2004 Code, § 53.106)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.117  BILLING PROCEDURES.



   (A)   Calculation of sewer service charges. Sewer service charges
shall be computed according to the rates and formula presented in this
subchapter.



   (B)   Sewer service charge billing period. Sewer service charges
shall be billed by the city to the sewer users on a quarterly basis or as
determined by the Council.



   (C)   Payment of sewer service charges. Those persons billed by the
city for the sewer service charges shall pay the charges within ten days
after the billing date at the City Hall.



   (D)   Delinquent bills; penalties. Any bill not paid in full ten
days after the due date will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city
shall require the delinquent owner or occupant to pay a penalty in addition
to the original bill. The penalty shall be computed as 5% of the original
bill. If delinquent bills are not paid they may be deemed delinquent and may
be placed, together with penalties as provided by statute, on the next
year’s tax roll and be collected as other taxes are collected. Change of
ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent shall not be cause for
reducing or eliminating these penalties.



   (E)   Delinquent bills; responsibility. Payment of charges and
penalties is the ultimate responsibility of the property owner. The city
reserves the right to trace the delinquent bill or penalty to the new address
of the delinquent occupant.



(2004 Code, § 53.107)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)




STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY




§ 53.130  ESTABLISHMENT.



   Pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from time to time,
the city establishes a storm water drainage utility, authorizes the
imposition of just and reasonable charges for the use and availability of
storm sewer facilities, and establishes a Storm Water Fund. The Storm Water
Fund shall be a separate account and shall be used solely for storm water
drainage purposes, as outlined in the above-referenced statute.



(2004 Code, § 53.120)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.131  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   POLLUTANT LOADING. The amount of total suspended solids delivered to
the storm water drainage system, measured in pounds per acre per year, that
is generated from a given land use.



   STANDARD RAINFALL EVENT. The one-year storm of one-day duration.



   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. The sum of all suspended matter,
described by the dry weight of the suspended matter found in a specific
volume of water (milligrams per liter, for example).



(2004 Code, § 53.121)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.132  FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.



   (A)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to
promote the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city
has constructed, operated and maintained a storm sewer system (“the
system”). This subchapter is adopted in the further exercise of this
authority and for the same purposes.



   (B)   The system, as constructed, heretofore has been financed and
paid for through the imposition of special assessments and ad valorem taxes.
It is now necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method of
recovering some or all of the future costs of improving, maintaining and
operating the system through the imposition of charges as provided in this
subchapter.



   (C)   (1)   In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a
methodology that undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into
account the status of completion of the system, past methods of recovering
system cost, the topography of the city and other relevant factors, it is
determined that it would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for
some or all of the future costs of operating, maintaining and improving the
system on the basis of the expected volume of storm water runoff from the
various parcels of land within the city during a standard rainfall event as
defined in § 53.131 of this chapter.



      (2)   In addition, it is determined that it would be just and
equitable to assign responsibility for some or all of the future costs of
operating, maintaining and improving the system on the basis of the expected
pollutant loading from the various parcels of land within the city.



   (D)   Assigning costs and making charges based upon expected typical
storm water runoff volume and pollutant loading cannot be done with
mathematical precision, but can only be accomplished within reasonable and
practical limits. The provisions of this subchapter undertake to establish a
reasonable and practical methodology for making these charges.



(2004 Code, § 53.122)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.133  RATES AND CHARGES; LAND USE CLASSIFICATIONS.



   (A)   Rates and charges.



      (1)   Residential equivalent factor. Rates and charges for the
use and availability of the system shall be determined through the use of a
residential equivalent factor (REF). An REF has been developed for the storm
water runoff volume (volume REF), the storm water runoff pollutant loading
(quality REF) and a composite that is used for the final utility fee
calculation (utility REF).



         (a)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



            QUALITY REF. The ratio of the pollutant loading
(measured as total suspended solids) coming from land subjected to a
particular use, to the pollutant loading coming from land subject to typical
single-family residential use with the city.



            UTILITY REF. The ratio of the sum of the volume and
quality portions of the total annual storm water drainage utility fee for a
given land use classification (as computed using the volume REF and the
quality REF for that land use classification), to the sum of the volume and
quality portions of the total annual storm water drainage utility fee for the
single-family residential land use classification (as computed using the
volume REF and the quality REF for the single-family residential land use
classification).



            VOLUME REF. The ratio of the average volume of
surface water runoff coming from one acre of land subjected to a particular
use to the average volume of runoff coming from one acre of land subjected to
typical single-family residential use within the city during a standard
rainfall event.



         (b)   The utility REF for each of the land use
classifications will be revised at that time in the future when there is a
shift in the percentage of utility expenditures related to storm water runoff
volume and storm water runoff quality treatment. The revision shall be
determined by the Director of Public Works, who shall notify the City Council
of the action.



      (2)   Storm water drainage charges.



         (a)   In determining charges the City Council shall by
ordinance establish a basic system rate to be charged against one acre of
land having a utility REF of one. The charge to be made against each parcel
of land shall then be determined by multiplying the utility REF for the
parcel’s land use classification times the parcel’s acreage times the
basic system rate. The volume, quality and utility REFs for the following
land uses within the city and the billing classifications for those land uses
are as follows.

 


Billing Classification

 

Land Use

 

Volume REF

 

Quality REF

 

Utility REF



1
 
Golf course, park, open space
 
0.41
 
0.50
 
0.43


2
 
Single-family and duplex residential
 
1.00
 
1.00
 
1.00


3
 
Public and private schools and institutional uses
 
1.36
 
3.05
 
1.67


4
 
Multiple-family residential and churches
 
2.18
 
3.21
 
2.37


5
 
Commercial and industrial
 
3.79
 
6.10
 
4.22



 



         (b)   For the purposes of calculating storm water
drainage charges, all developed single-family and duplex parcels less than
one acre in size per unit shall be considered to have an acreage of one-third
acre per unit. Double bungalows or duplexes shall be considered to be two
units. Single-family parcels over one acre in size or duplex residential
parcels over one acre per unit in size shall be billed at a higher rate.
These rates shall be included in the ordinance approved by the City Council.



      (3)   Storm water utility rates. Storm water utility rates
shall be established by an ordinance of the City Council as amended from time
to time. Fee rates may be included as part of the fee schedule, as adopted by
the City Council, included within the annual budget ordinance. Fees shall be
structured to reasonably reflect the cost of constructing, maintaining and
operating storm water drainage systems as outlined in M.S. § 444.075, as it
may be amended from time to time.



   (B)   Other land uses. The Director of Public Works shall classify
other land uses not listed in the foregoing table by assigning them to
classes most nearly like the listed uses, from the standpoint of runoff
volume for the standard rainfall event and the pollutant loading. An appeal
from the Director of Public Works’ determination of the property
classification may be made to the City Council.



(2004 Code, § 53.123)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.134  ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY.



   The City Council may, by ordinance, adopt policies providing for the
adjustment of charges or credits to charges for parcels or groups of parcels,
based upon land use data supplied by affected property owners, which data
demonstrates a runoff volume for the standard rainfall event or a pollutant
loading substantially different from that being used for the parcel or
parcels. The Director of Public Works shall make the adjustment or credit. An
appeal from the Director of Public Works’ determination may be made in
writing to the City Council. No adjustments shall be made retroactively.



(2004 Code, § 53.124)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.135  PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE.



   The city shall hold a hearing prior to determining whether to build,
construct, enlarge or improve storm sewer facilities financed in whole or in
part by the imposition of storm sewer drainage charges. Notice of the hearing
shall be published in the official city newspaper at least ten days prior to
the date of hearing. Owners of all property adjoining a proposed improvement
shall be mailed or served with a notice at least ten days in advance of the
hearing. However, failure to give mailed notice or any defects in the notice
shall not invalidate the proceedings.



(2004 Code, § 53.125)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.136  EXEMPTIONS.



   Public street rights-of-way, railroad rights-of-way and lands used
exclusively for agricultural purposes are exempt from storm water drainage
charges.



(2004 Code, § 53.126)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.137  PAYMENT OF CHARGES.



   Storm water bills shall be mailed to the owner or other account holder
with their city water/sewer statement and shall specify the charges.



(2004 Code, § 53.127)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.138  DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.



   (A)   Delinquent bills; penalties. A bill shall be considered
delinquent if not paid by the end of the day on the billing due date. At that
time the city shall require the delinquent owner or occupant to pay a penalty
in addition to the original bill. The penalty shall be assessed on the first
business day subsequent to the billing due date, calculated at the greater of
5% of the original bill or $1. If delinquent bills are not paid they may be
deemed delinquent and may be placed, together with penalties as provided by
statute, on the next year’s tax roll and be collected as other taxes are
collected. Change of ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent
shall not be cause for reducing or eliminating these penalties.



   (B)   Responsibility of owner. Payment of charges and penalties is
the ultimate responsibility of the property owner. The city reserves the
right to trace the delinquent bill or penalty to the new address of the
delinquent occupant.



   (C)   Additional penalties. In addition to the above listed
penalties, the city may impose any and all of the penalties outlined in §
1.18 of the City Policy Handbook if a storm water utility account is found to
be delinquent.



   (D)   Assessment of delinquent accounts. Delinquent accounts may be
certified by the City Council to the County Auditor for collection with the
next years taxes as provided for by M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended
from time to time. Before making the certification, a delinquent account
holder must be notified by first class mail of the delinquency and the date
the holder may appear before the City Council to state any reason why the
certification should not be made.



(2004 Code, § 53.128)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



§ 53.139  RECALCULATION; ADJUSTMENTS; CREDITS.



   (A)   Recalculation of charges. If a property owner or person
responsible for paying the storm water drainage charge questions the
correctness of such a charge, that person may have the determination of the
charge recomputed by written request to the Director of Public Works. This
request shall be made within 30 days of the mailing of the billing in
question.



   (B)   Adjustments or credits to the storm water drainage charges.



      (1)   Rate structure; purpose of adjustments.



         (a)   The municipal storm water drainage utility uses a
rate structure based on the anticipated relative contribution of storm water
drainage runoff volume and pollutant loading to the storm water drainage
system. A parcel’s contribution is determined by that parcel’s size and
its land use, under the principle that more intensively developed land uses
typically have a larger percentage of impervious surface and contribute a
much greater volume of water to the system for the standard rainfall event of
2.3 inches in 24 hours and larger pollutant loading.



         (b)   It is recognized that some parcels, due either to
their unique topographic, vegetative, geologic and other characteristics have
a hydrologic response substantially different from that of similarly sized
parcels of the same land use. To provide for an equitable assessment of storm
water drainage charges, based on reasonably expected contribution of flows,
provisions need to be made to permit adjustments to the storm water drainage
charge for those parcels with unique or unusual characteristics, or credits
to the storm water drainage charge for those parcels with storm water runoff
volume and/or quality treatment facilities.



      (2)   Grounds for adjustment.



         (a)   The basis of the city’s storm water drainage
charges is the anticipated relative contribution of storm water runoff volume
and pollutant loading to the storm water drainage system from a given parcel.
Where unique or unusual conditions exist where the actual contributions of
storm water runoff volume or pollutant loading from a given parcel are
substantially different from those anticipated by the storm water drainage
rate structure, the Director of Public Works, or designee thereof, may adjust
or credit the storm water drainage charge for the parcel to an appropriate
level in accordance with the guidelines specified herein.



         (b)   The subchapter establishing the storm water
drainage utility provides for the Director of Public Works to make
adjustments or credits to the charges when:



            1.   The property owner supplies data
demonstrating a storm water runoff volume for the standard rainfall event
substantially different from that being used for the parcel; or



            2.   The property owner supplies data
demonstrating that storm water runoff from the parcel is being treated to
provide the required removal efficiency for total suspended solids (TSS).



      (3)   Property owner to provide detailed information. It is
the responsibility of the property owner or agent thereof to present to the
Director of Public Works, or designee thereof, sufficient information
concerning a parcel’s hydrologic characteristics to permit an accurate
assessment of the conditions that exist.



         (a)   This information may include, but is not limited
to:



            1.   Site plan showing locations of all buildings,
paved areas and other development relative to lot lines;



            2.   The total lot area and area of impervious
surfaces, in square feet;



            3.   Site topography or contours of sufficient
detail to ascertain flow directions, rates and volumes;



            4.   Hydraulic calculations specifying outflow
volumes and rates for various rainfall events; and



            5.   Calculation of total suspended solids removal
efficient of any on-site storm water runoff treatment facility.



         (b)   Failure to provide this information within 30 days
after delivery of a written request shall result in the assignment of the
highest classification level for volume, quality and utility REF.



      (4)   Adjustments where parcel runoff is significantly
different from land use standard. Where the unit runoff generated by a parcel
differs from the assigned amount for that land use category by more than 20%,
the Director of Public Works, or designee thereof, may adjust the parcel’s
storm water drainage charge in accordance with the following procedure.



         (a)   Calculation of unit runoff for the parcel shall be
determined by the methods outlined in the Natural Resources Conservation
Service Technical Release No. 55, utilizing a one-year event of 24-hour
duration as the standard rainfall event.



         (b)   If the calculated unit runoff is shown to differ
from the assigned amount for that land use category by 20% or more, the
volume portion of the fee for that parcel shall be adjusted by multiplying it
by the ratio of the calculated unit runoff to the standard unit runoff.



         (c)   A parcel’s storm water drainage charge shall be
subject to increases as well as decreases by this procedure.



         (d)   For parcels with ponds covered by public
easements, the area used for the calculation of the charge shall be reduced
by the size of the easement area.



         (e)   Because single-family and duplex fees are not
based upon actual parcel acreage, no adjustments for unit runoff differences
will be made for those land uses, except for totally vacant, unimproved,
fully turfed parcels.



         (f)   Adjustments shall not be retroactive. They become
effective from the date they are approved.



      (5)   Procedures for calculation of storm water credits.
Procedures for calculation of storm water detention credits for volume
charges and for calculation of water quality treatment credits for quality
charges shall be based on standards prepared by the Director of Public Works
and approved by the City Council.



      (6)   City’s right to inspect facilities and initiate fee
adjustments and/or credits.



         (a)   The Director of Public Works, or designee thereof,
reserves the right to inspect periodically all storm drainage control
facilities to ascertain that they are operating properly. If such a system,
due to improper maintenance or other reason, fails to detain or cleanse storm
water runoff in an effective manner, the Director of Public Works, or
designee thereof, may eliminate or reduce detention or water quality credits
to an appropriate level. The facility shall not be eligible to apply for
storm drainage charge adjustments and/or credits for a period of 12 months
following any adjustment and/or credit. Adjustments and credits shall not be
made retroactively. An appeal from the Director of Public Works’
determination may be made to the City Council.



         (b)   The issuance of any building permit or other
action that changes or intensifies an existing land use shall be cause for an
adjustment of storm water drainage charges to an appropriate level.



(2004 Code, § 53.129)  (Ord. 01-289, passed 1-23-2001)



ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT



§ 53.150  RIGHT OF ENTRY; IDENTIFICATION; SAFETY RULES.



   (A)   Right of entry. The Council or other duly authorized employees
of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, observation or testing, all in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. This includes inspection of buildings to confirm that there is
no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
The city may allow for certification of compliance by a licensed plumber that
has received the authority to do so by the city. The city may periodically
reinspect any building or premise to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.



   (B)   Safety. While performing the necessary work on private
premises referred to in division (A) above, the duly authorized city
employees shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the owner or the occupant.



   (C)   Identification; right to enter easements. The Council or duly
authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the city holds an easement for the purpose of, but not limited to,
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any
portion of the sewage works lying within the easement at all reasonable
times, all subject to the terms, if any, of that easement.



   (D)   Warrants. If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in
control of a premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the
property, the City Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official
charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a
showing that probable cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant
from a court of competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant
before conducting the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This
warrant shall be only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions only, and no criminal charges
shall be made as a result of the warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless
there be probable cause to issue the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the
search is reasonable. Probable cause does not depend on specific knowledge of
the condition of a particular property.



(2004 Code, § 53.140)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988; Ord. 01-291, passed
5-22-2001)



§ 53.151  PUBLIC NUISANCES; ABATEMENT; EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.



   (A)   Public nuisance. The violation of any provision of §§
53.001, 53.035 through 53.040, 53.055 through 53.063, 53.110 through 53.112,
53.116 or 53.150 of this code, shall constitute a public nuisance as that
term is defined in this code of ordinances.



   (B)   Abatement of nuisance; no immediate danger. If it is
determined that a public nuisance has been created, or is being maintained,
by violation of this chapter (as set forth hereinabove), but that the nature
of the nuisance is not so as to threaten great and immediate danger to the
public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, written notice shall be
served on the person causing or maintaining the nuisance to remove or correct
the same (identifying the nature of the violation) within a specified
reasonable time. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, abate the nuisance and permanently cease all violations.



   (C)   Abatement of nuisance; immediate danger. If it is determined
that a public nuisance caused by the violation of this chapter exists, and
that there is great and immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace,
morals or decency, the Mayor, City Engineer or Chief of Police may cause the
same to immediately be abated, and charge the cost thereof to the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance, as the
case may be. If notice to abate the nuisance has been given to the owner, the
cost shall be assessed against the real estate as a special charge.



(2004 Code, § 53.141)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 53.152  APPEALS; PROCEDURES.



   Any user, permit applicant or permit holder affected by any decision,
action or determination, including cease and desist orders, made by the
Council interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter or in any
permit issued herein, may file with the Council a written request for
reconsideration within ten days of the date of the decision, action or
determination, setting forth in detail the facts supporting the user’s
request for reconsideration. The Council shall render a decision on the
request for reconsideration to the user, permit applicant or permit holder in
writing within 15 days of receipt of request. If the ruling on the request
for reconsideration made by the Council is unsatisfactory, the person
requesting reconsideration may, within ten days after notification of the
action, file a written appeal with the Council. The written appeal shall be
heard by the Council within 30 days from the date of filing. The Council
shall make a final ruling on the appeal within ten days from the date of
hearing.



(2004 Code, § 53.142)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.153  ANNUAL AUDIT; RATE NOTIFICATION.



   (A)   Annual audit. The city shall review, at least every year, the
wastewater contribution of its sewer users, the operation and maintenance
expenses of the wastewater treatment facilities, and the sewer service charge
system. Based on this review, the city shall revise the sewer service charge
system, if necessary, to accomplish the following:



      (1)   Maintain a proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance expenses among sewer users based on the wastewater volume and
pollutant loadings discharged by the users;



      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to pay the operation and
maintenance expenses of the wastewater treatment facilities; and



      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to
the operation and maintenance expenses attributable to that class of users
for the next year and adjust the sewer service charge rates accordingly.



   (B)   Annual notification. The city shall notify its sewer users
annually about the sewer service charge rates. The notification shall show
what portion of the rates are attributable to the operation and maintenance
expenses and debt service costs of the wastewater treatment facilities.



(2004 Code, § 53.143)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



§ 53.154  RECORDS.



   The City Administrator shall be responsible for maintaining records
regarding wastewater flows and loadings, costs of the wastewater treatment
facilities, sampling programs and other information which is necessary to
document compliance with 40 C.F.R. part 35, subpt. E, of the Clean Water Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.



(2004 Code, § 53.144)  (Ord. 781, passed 7-19-1988)



CHAPTER 54:  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT



Section



General Provisions



   54.001   Purpose



   54.002   Definitions



   54.003   Scope



   54.004   Management of site vegetation



   54.005   Use of storm water ponds



Storm Water Management Plan - Application and Review



   54.020   Application and content



   54.021   Review process



   54.022   Duration



   54.023   Conditions



Storm Water Management Plan - Approval Standards



   54.035   General



   54.036   Minnesota Storm Water Manual



   54.037   Models/methodologies/computations



   54.038   Storm water management criteria for permanent facilities



   54.039   Operation, maintenance and inspection



   54.040   Easements



   54.041   Plan applicability



   54.042   Plan amendments



NPDES Permit



   54.055   NPDES permit



   54.056   Construction plans and specifications



   54.057   Construction activities



Suspensions, Revocations and Stop Work Orders



   54.070   Storm water violations and reporting



   54.071   Emergency suspension



   54.072   Non-emergency revocation of a plan



   54.073   Notification



Enforcement, Penalties and Non-Compliance Fees



   54.085   Enforcement, penalty and non-compliance fees



   54.086   Cost of damage



   54.087   City Attorney’s fees and costs



   54.088   Falsifying information



 



   54.999   Penalty



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 54.001  PURPOSE.



   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for storm water
management systems within the city. In the event of any conflict between the
provisions of this chapter or other regulations adopted by the city, the
county, state or federal authorities, the more restrictive standard prevails.
The objectives of this chapter are as follows:



      (1)   To promote, preserve and enhance the natural resources
within the city from adverse or undesirable impacts occasioned by development
or other activities;



      (2)   To protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of
the people and property through effective storm water quantity and quality
management practices;



      (3)   To regulate land development activity, land disturbing
activity or other activities that may have an adverse and/or potentially
irreversible impact on storm water quantity, water quality and/or
environmentally sensitive lands and to encourage compatibility between such
uses;



      (4)   To establish detailed review standards and procedures
for land development activities throughout the city, thereby achieving a
balance between urban growth and development and the protection of water
quality; and



      (5)   To provide for adequate storm water system analysis and
design as necessary to protect public and private property, water quality and
existing natural resources.



   (B)   This chapter applies in the city and to persons outside the
city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city storm
water management system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the City
Engineer shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.



(2004 Code, § 54.01)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.002  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and
words, and their derivatives, shall have the meaning as stated in this
section. When inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense. Words in plural number include the singular number,
and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is
always mandatory and the word MAY is always permissive.



   APPLICANT. Any person or group that applies for a building permit,
subdivision approval, zoning change, approach, excavation or special use
permit, storm water plan approval, or any other permit which allows land
disturbing activities. APPLICANT also means that person’s agents,
employees, and others acting under this person’s or group’s direction.
The term APPLICANT also refers to the permit holder or holders and the permit
holder’s agents, employees, and others acting under this person’s or
group’s direction.



   BASE FLOOD, REGIONAL FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD. The flood having a 1%
chance or probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year (i.e.,
100-year flood), also referred to as the REGIONAL FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD.



   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable
means of controlling, preventing and minimizing the degradation of surface
water, including construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil
areas are exposed, prohibitions and other management practices published by
federal, state or designated area-wide planning agencies.



   BMPs.



      (1)   Measures designed to:



         (a)   Prevent pollutants from leaving a specific area;



         (b)   Reduce/eliminate the introduction of pollutants;



         (c)   Protect sensitive areas; or



         (d)   Prevent the interaction between precipitation and
pollutants.



      (2)   A protective vegetated zone located adjacent to a
natural resource, such as a water of the state that is subject to direct or
indirect human alteration. Such a buffer strip is an integral part of
protecting an aquatic ecosystem through trapping sheet erosion, filtering
pollutants, reducing channel erosion and providing adjacent habitat.



   BUFFER. The buffer strip begins at the ordinary high water mark for
wetlands and the top of the bank of the channel for rivers and streams. This
start point corresponds to the State Department of Natural Resources
definition of a SHORELINE in Minn. Rules part 6115.0030 (e.g., a stream 30
feet in width between banks with 100-foot buffer strips has a total protected
width of 230 feet).



   CITY. The City of Hutchinson or the City Council of the City of
Hutchinson.



   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the city or authorized agent. The
City Engineer may require a third party engineer’s service at the
applicant’s expense.



   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at
different times, or on different schedules, but under one proposed plan. This
item is broadly defined to include design, permit application, advertisement
or physical demarcation indicating that land disturbing activities may occur.



   CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to control
erosion and attendant pollution, see also BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.



   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Hutchinson.



   DETENTION FACILITY. A natural or human-made structure, including
wetlands, used for the temporary storage of runoff and which may contain a
permanent pool of water, or may be dry during times of no runoff.



   DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbance activity that changes the site’s
runoff characteristics in conjunction with residential, commercial,
industrial or institutional construction or alteration.



   DEVELOPER. A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship,
partnership, federal or state agency, or political subdivision thereof
engaged in a land disturbance and/or land development activity.



   DISCHARGE. The release, conveyance, channeling, runoff or drainage, of
storm water, including snowmelt.



   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. A right to use the land of another for a specific
purpose, such as a right-of-way for the movement of water across or under the
land surface or the storage of water.



   EROSION. Removing the surface of the land by the action of water, wind,
ice or gravity. EROSION can be accelerated by the activities of humans and
nature.



   EROSION CONTROL. Refers to methods employed to prevent erosion.
Examples include soil stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading,
temporary or permanent cover and construction phasing.



   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (E & S CONTROL PLAN). A written
description and/or plan indicating the number, locations, sizes and other
pertinent information about best management practice methods designed to
reduce erosion of the land surface and the deposition of sediment within a
waterway. An E & S CONTROL PLAN is required as part of a storm water
management plan. Both the storm water management plan and E & S CONTROL PLANS
are used in developing the state mandated storm water pollution prevention
plan (SWPPP). An E & S CONTROL PLAN may be required for certain projects not
requiring a full storm water management plan, as outlined in this chapter or
determined necessary by the City Engineer.



   EXPOSED SOIL AREAS. All areas of the construction site where the
vegetation (trees, shrubs, brush, grasses and the like) or impervious surface
has been removed, thus rendering the soil more prone to erosion. This
includes topsoil stockpile areas, borrow areas and disposal areas within the
construction site. It does not include temporary stockpiles or surcharge
areas of clean sand, gravel, concrete or bituminous, which have less
stringent protection. Once soil is exposed, it is considered exposed soil
until it meets the definition of “final stabilization”.



   FINAL STABILIZATION. All soil disturbing activities at the site have
been completed, and that a uniform, evenly distributed (e.g., without large
bare areas) perennial vegetative cover with a density of 70% of the cover for
unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures has been
established, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures have been
employed. Simply sowing grass seed is not considered FINAL STABILIZATION.
Where agricultural land is involved, such as when pipelines are built on crop
or rangeland, final stabilization constitutes returning the land to its
preconstruction agricultural use.



   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded or ponded long enough
during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part
of the soil profile.



   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION.Macrophytic (large enough to be observed by the
naked eye) plant life growing in water, soil or on a substrate that is at
least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of excessive water content.



   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface that allows a prohibited discharge to enter the storm drain system
including but not limited to any conveyances that allow any non-storm water
discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement
agency, or any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the city.



   IMPERVIOUS AREA. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios,
driveways, parking lots, storage areas and concrete, asphalt or gravel
parking lots and roads.



   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. The portion of the buildable parcel which has a
covering which does not permit water to percolate into the natural soil and
causes water to runoff the surface in greater quantities and at an increased
rate of flow than existed prior to development. IMPERVIOUS SURFACE shall
include, but not be limited to, buildings, all driveways and parking areas
(whether paved or not), sidewalks, patios, tennis and basketball courts,
covered decks, porches and other structures. Open, uncovered decks are not
considered IMPERVIOUS for the purposes of this chapter if they have a
pervious surface underneath and have at least one-eighth inch spacing between
the deck floor boards. Eaves and overhangs are not calculated as IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE. The use of patio blocks, paver bricks or gravel material, as well as
plastic landscape fabric are considered IMPERVIOUS SURFACES as a majority of
water runs-off the surface rather than being absorbed into natural soils
underneath. Some exceptions to these conditions may include paver blocks or
pavement systems engineered to be permeable with the underlying soils
suitable for infiltration.



   LAND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. The act of subdivision or platting
properties for personal use, adding value or for the purposes of resale. This
includes the construction and/or demolition of buildings, structures, roads,
parking lots, paved storage areas and similar facilities.



   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil
erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into or upon waters
or lands within the city’s jurisdiction, including construction, clearing
and grubbing, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land. Within
the context of this chapter, LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY does not mean:



      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens
and an individual’s home landscaping, repairs and maintenance work, which
will not result in sediments entering the storm water system;



      (2)   Additions or modifications to existing single-family
structures that result in creating under 5,000 square feet of exposed soil or
impervious surface and will not result in sediments entering the storm water
system;



      (3)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of trees,
fences, signs, posts, poles and electric, telephone, cable television,
utility lines or individual service connections to these utilities, which
result in creating under 5,000 square feet of exposed soil or impervious
surface and will not result in sediments entering the storm water system;



      (4)   Tilling, planting or harvesting of agricultural,
horticultural, or silvicultural (forestry) crops; and



      (5)   Emergency work to protect life, limb or property and
emergency repairs, unless the land disturbing activity would have otherwise
required an approved erosion and sediment control plan, except for the
emergency. If such a plan would have been required, then the disturbed land
area shall be shaped and stabilized in accordance with the city’s
requirements as soon as possible.



   LANDOWNER. Any person holding title to or having a divided or undivided
interest in land.



   LOCAL DETENTION. Detention intended to serve only the developing area
in question and no areas outside of the development boundaries, as such it is
under the control of one owner or group of owners. This is also known as
ON-SITE DETENTION.



   LOCAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The storm drainage system which transports the
minor and major storm water runoff to the major storm water system serving
only the property within the development boundaries, under the control of one
owner or group of owners. This is also known as the ON-SITE DRAINAGE SYSTEM.



   MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. A practice or combination of practices to control
erosion and water quality degradation.



   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
PERMIT. Any permit or requirement enforced pursuant to the Clean Water Act,
being 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., as amended for the purposes of regulating storm
water discharge.



   NATIONWIDE URBAN RUNOFF PROGRAM (NURP). An urban runoff study by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency.



   NATURAL WATER. A river, stream, pond, channel or ditch.



   NON-COMPLIANCE FEE. The administrative penalty, or fee, for
re-inspection of a property which may be assessed to a permittee, land owner,
developer or their contractor(s) for non-compliance with the provisions
and/or conditions of an approved storm water plan and/or permit or the
violation of any other provisions contained in this chapter.



   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm water management
system that is not composed entirely of storm water.



   ON-SITE DETENTION. See LOCAL DETENTION SYSTEM.



   ON-SITE DRAINAGE SYSTEM. See LOCAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM.



   OUTLET. Any discharge point, including storm sewers, into a
watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or ground water.



   OWNER OR OCCUPANT. Any person owning or using a lot, parcel of land, or
premises connected to and discharging storm water into the storm water system
of the city, and who pays for and is legally responsible for the payment of
storm water rates or charges made against the lot, parcel of land, building
or premises, if connected to the storm water system or who would pay or be
legally responsible for such payment.



   PERMANENT CONSTRUCTED DEVELOPMENT PERMANENT FACILITIES.Those features
of a storm water management plan which are part of any natural or constructed
storm water system that requires periodic maintenance to retain their
operational capabilities. This includes, but is not limited to, storm sewers,
infiltration areas, detention areas, channels, streets and the like.



   PERMANENT COVER. Final stabilization. Examples include grass, gravel,
asphalt and concrete. See also the definition of FINAL STABILIZATION. Any
buildings, structures, landscaping and related features as part of a
development project approved for construction or constructed prior to the
passage of this chapter.



   PERMIT. Within the context of this rule a permit is a written warrant
or license granted for construction, subdivision approval or to allow land
disturbing activities.



   PERMITTEE. Any person who applies for and receives approval of a storm
water plan and/or permit from the city and/or state.



   PERSON. Any developer, individual, firm, corporation, partnership,
franchise, association, owner, occupant of property or agency, either public
or private.



   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE. A non-storm water discharge into the storm water
system or a natural water, including, but not limited to:



      (1)   Debris or other materials such as grass clippings,
vegetative materials, tree branches, earth fill, rocks, concrete chunks,
metal, other demolition or construction materials, or structures;



      (2)   The disposal or misuse of chemicals or any other
materials that would degrade the quality of waters within the system,
including, but not limited to, chemicals (fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides
and the like) or petroleum based products (gasoline, oil, fuels, solvents,
paints and the like);



      (3)   Erosion and sediment originating from a property and
deposited onto city streets, private properties or into the storm water
conveyance system, including those areas not specifically covered under an
approved storm water management plan or storm water permit;



      (4)   Failure to remove sediments transported or tracked onto
city streets by vehicles or construction traffic within 24 hours of it being
deposited on the street; and



      (5)   For the purposes of this chapter, PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
do not include the following, unless information is available to indicate
otherwise:



         (a)   Water line flushing;



         (b)   Landscape irrigation;



         (c)   Diverted stream flows;



         (d)   Rising ground water;



         (e)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration;



         (f)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;



         (g)   Discharges from potable water sources;



         (h)   Foundation drains;



         (i)   Air conditioning condensate;



         (j)   Irrigation water;



         (k)   Springs;



         (l)   Water from crawl space pumps;



         (m)   Footing drains;



         (n)   Lawn watering;



         (o)   Individual residential car washing;



         (p)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;



         (q)   De-chlorinated swimming pool discharges; and



         (r)   Street wash water.



   PUBLIC STORM SEWER. A storm sewer located entirely within publicly
owned land or easements.



   REGIONAL DETENTION. Detention facilities provided to serve an area
outside the development boundaries. A REGIONAL DETENTION SITE generally
receives runoff from multiple storm water sources and serves an area of
approximately one quarter section.



   REGIONAL FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD or REGIONAL FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD.



   RETENTION FACILITY. A natural or manmade structure that provides for
the storage of all or a portion of storm water runoff.



   RUNOFF. The rainfall, snowmelt, dewatering or irrigation water flowing
over the grounds surface and into open channels, underground storm sewers and
detention or retention ponds.



   SEDIMENT. Solid material or organic material that, in suspension, is
being transported or has been moved by air, water, gravity or ice, and
deposited at another location.



   SEDIMENT CONTROL. The methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving
the development site. Examples of SEDIMENT CONTROL PRACTICES include, but are
not limited to, silt fences, sediment traps, earth dikes, drainage swales,
check dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope drains, storm drain inlet
protection and temporary or permanent sedimentation basins.



   SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that changes the
footprint of a site or building in such a way that results in the disturbance
of over one acre of land. This term is not intended to include activities,
which would not be expected to cause adverse storm water quality impacts and
offer no new opportunity for storm water controls, such as exterior
remodeling.



   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the parcel
or other land division on which the land development or land disturbing
activity is proposed in the storm water plan or permit application.



   STABILIZE. To make the site steadfast or firm, minimizing soil movement
by mulching and seeding, sodding, landscaping, placing concrete, gravel or
other measures.



   STABILIZED. The exposed ground surface after it has been covered by
sod, erosion control blanket, riprap, pavement or other material that
prevents erosion. Simply sowing grass seed is not considered STABILIZATION.
Ground surfaces may be temporarily or permanently stabilized (also see FINAL
STABILIZATION).



   STATE. The State of Minnesota.



   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying storm waters, surface
runoff and drainage, excluding sewage and industrial wastes.



   STORM WATER. Means precipitation runoff, storm water runoff, snow melt
runoff and any other surface runoff and drainage. STORM WATER does not
include construction site dewatering.



   STORM WATER DEPRESSED DETENTION. Temporary storage of storm water
runoff in ponds, parking lots, grassy areas, rooftops, buried underground
tanks and the like for future or controlled release. Used to delay and
attenuate flow.



   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. The planned set of public policies and
activities undertaken to regulate runoff and reduce erosion, and maintain or
improve water quality under various specified conditions within various
portions of the drainage system. It may establish criteria for controlling
peak flows and/or runoff volumes, for runoff detention and retention, or for
pollution control, and may specify criteria for the relative elevations among
various elements of the drainage system. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT is primarily
concerned with limiting future flood damages and environmental impacts due to
development, whereas flood control aims at reducing the extent of flooding
that occurs under current conditions.



   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT CRITERIA. Specific guidance provided to the
engineer/designer to carry out drainage and storm water management policies.
An example might be the specification of local design hydrology and use of
the design storm.



   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A document containing the requirements
identified by the city in the storm water management plan application and
review section of this chapter, that when implemented will provide solutions
to storm water management problems that may occur as a result of the proposed
development or land disturbing activity.



   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. Physical facilities that collect, store,
convey and treat storm water runoff in urban areas. These facilities normally
include detention and retention facilities, streets, storm sewers, inlets,
open channels and special structures, such as inlets, manholes and energy
dissipaters.



   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A joint storm water and
erosion and sediment control plan that is written as a prerequisite to
obtaining an NPDES storm water permit for construction activity, that when
implemented will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land and off-site
non-point pollution. It involves both temporary and permanent controls. The
SWPPP, which draws its information from a Storm Water Management Plan and is
typically condensed, must be incorporated into the construction grading plans
for the project.



   STORM WATER RETENTION STRUCTURE. Storage designed to eliminate or
reduce the frequency of subsequent surface discharge. Wet ponds are the most
common type of retention storage (though wet ponds may also be used for
detention storage). Any thing manufactured, constructed or erected which is
normally attached to or positioned on land, including portable structures,
earthen structures, roads, parking lots and paved storage areas.



   SUBDIVISION. Any tract of land divided into building lots for private,
public, commercial, industrial and the like development for the purpose of
sale, rent or lease, including planned unit development.



   SYSTEM CHARGE OR ASSESSMENT. A charge for connecting an outlet to a
regional storm water management facility, typically a pond. The charge is
normally assessed to recover the proportional cost of constructing a regional
pond or storm water treatment facility.



   TEMPORARY PROTECTION. Short-term methods employed to prevent erosion.
Examples of such protection are straw, mulch, erosion control blankets, wood
chips and erosion netting.



   UNDEVELOPED LAND. Land that in its current state has not been impacted
by significant land disturbance activities, annexed into the city or
subdivided into multiple ownership lots and is typically zoned agricultural.



   URBAN AREA. Land associated with, or part of, a defined city or town.
This title of the city code applies to urban or urbanizing, rather than rural
areas.



   USER. Any person who discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
storm water into the city’s storm water management system.



   VIOLATION. The willful or negligent act of non-compliance with the
conditions attached to an approved storm water plan and/or permit, or any
other provisions contained in this chapter, subject to enforcement and
penalty or non-compliance fees.



   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.



   WATERCOURSE. The natural path for the flow of water where there is
sufficient natural and accustomed runoff to form and maintain a distinct and
defined channel or an open channel facility that has been constructed for
such purpose. This shall include any easements obtained for the purposes of
runoff conveyance.



   WATERSHED MASTER PLAN. A plan that an engineer/designer formulates to
manage urban storm water runoff for a particular project or drainage area. It
typically addresses such subjects as characterization of the existing and
future site development, land use and grading plan, peak rates of runoff,
flow duration, runoff volumes for various return frequencies, locations,
criteria and sizes of detention or retention ponds and conveyances; runoff
control features; land parcels, easement locations, opinions of probable
costs, measures to enhance runoff quality, salient regulations and how the
plan addresses them, and consistency with secondary objectives such as public
recreation, aesthetics, public safety and ground water recharge. It may be
submitted to regulatory officials for their review for adoption.



   WET POND (WET DETENTION FACILITY). A retention facility which includes
a permanent pool of water used for the purposes of providing for the
treatment of storm water runoff.



   WETLANDS. Lands that transition between terrestrial and aquatic systems
(excluding drainage ditch bottoms) where the water table is usually at or
near the surface or the land is covered by shallow water. For purposes of
this definition, wetlands must have the following three attributes:



      (1)   A predominance of hydric soils;



      (2)   Are inundated or saturated by the surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of
hydrophytic vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions; and



      (3)   Under normal circumstances support the prevalence of
such vegetation.



(2004 Code, § 54.02)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 10-0556, passed
9-14-2010; Ord. 15-0737, passed 3-24-2015)



§ 54.003  SCOPE.



   (A)   Prohibited discharges. It shall be considered an offense for
any person to cause or allow a prohibited discharge into waters of the state,
including the city storm water system, or any natural water.



   (B)   Land disturbing activity requiring a storm water management
plan.



      (1)   Any person, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership,
corporation, state agency or political subdivision proposing subdivision or
plat approval, a building permit or any land disturbance activity greater
than one acre within the city must submit a state issued NPDES permit for
construction activity and storm water pollution prevention plan to the City
Engineer unless a waiver is provided in accordance with this section. No
subdivision approval, plat approval or building permit shall be issued until
a state NPDES permit for construction activity and storm water pollution
prevention plan or a waiver of the approval requirements has been approved by
the City Engineer in strict conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
No land shall be disturbed until the permit is approved by the City Engineer
and conforms to the standards set forth herein.



      (2)   A storm water management plan may also be required in
some situations as determined by the City Engineer (i.e., development within
an existing subdivision with documented flooding problems associated with
storm water runoff).



      (3)   Exemptions to the storm water management plan
requirements of this section include the following: any part of a subdivision
that is included in a plat that has been approved by the City Council and
recorded with the Register of Deeds on or before the effective date of this
chapter. A storm water permit for land disturbing activities on such
properties may still be required, as determined by the City Engineer, and
such activities are still subject to other compliance requirements in
accordance with this chapter:



         (a)   A storm water management plan is generally not
required for individual lots or properties located within a subdivision or
plat for which a storm water management plan has already been approved. This
exemption is subject to the City Engineer’s consideration and approval;



         (b)   A parcel for which a building permit has been
approved on and/or before the effective date of this chapter and an NPDES
permit for construction activity was not required;



         (c)   Any land disturbance activity not associated with
building construction that will affect less than one acre of undeveloped
land; and



         (d)   Emergency work to protect life, limb or property.



   (C)   Land disturbing activity involving the construction of a
single-family or two-family dwelling. Construction of single-family or
two-family dwellings must comply with in place approved BMPs and any existing
permitted SWPPP for the subdivision, including NPDES permit for construction
activity  requirements and subdivision agreement. Compliance with the
single-family residential construction erosion/sediment control standards is
required.



   (D)   Installation and repair of utility service lines.



      (1)   At project sites that require permit coverage where a
utility contractor is not the site owner or operator, each utility contractor
must comply with the provisions of the storm water pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP) for the project their construction activities will impact. Each
utility contractor must ensure that their activities do not render
ineffective, the erosion prevention and sediment control best management
practices (BMPs) for the site. Should a utility contractor damage or render
ineffective any BMPs for the site, the owner must ensure such BMPs are
repaired or replaced within seven days of completion of utility installation
on the site.



      (2)   At project sites where a utility contractor is the site
owner or operator, and the utility company disturbs one or more acres of soil
for the purpose of installation of utility service lines, including, but not
limited to, residential electric, gas, telephone and cable lines, the utility
company must apply for permit coverage from the state prior to commencement
of construction.



      (3)   Utility contractors working in a street right-of-way to
repair existing or install new utilities and disturbing less than one acre
are required to provide appropriate inlet protection and sediment control
during the course of the work so as to ensure the storm sewer system is
protected from pollution. The utility contractor is also required to provide
street sweeping as necessary to insure that sediments resulting from their
activity do not enter the storm water system following construction. The
street shall be swept within one working day of completion of utility
installation on the site. All disturbed vegetation shall be replaced with
seed or sod within seven days of completion of utility installation on the
site. The city will provide guidance regarding acceptable temporary
protection BMPs for inlets and methods to stabilize the exposed soil areas
until they meet the definition of final stabilization.



   (E)   Waivers. The City Engineer may waive any requirement of this
chapter upon making a finding that compliance with the requirement will
involve an unnecessary hardship, and the waiver of such requirement is not
contrary to the objectives in this section. The City Engineer may require as
a condition of the waiver, such dedication or construction, or agreement to
dedicate or construct, as may be necessary to adequately meet the said
standards and requirements.



(2004 Code, § 54.03)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 17-773, passed
6-27-2017)



§ 54.004  MANAGEMENT OF SITE VEGETATION.



   (A)   Any landowner shall provide for the installation and
maintenance of vegetation on his, her or their property in accordance with
the following criteria, regardless as to whether or not a storm water
management plan has been approved or is necessary under this chapter.



      (1)   Use of impervious surfaces. No person shall apply items
included in the definition of “prohibited discharge” on impervious
surfaces or within storm water drainage systems with impervious liners or
conduits.



      (2)   Unimproved land areas. Except for driveways, sidewalks,
patios, areas occupied by structures, landscaped areas or areas that have
been otherwise improved, all areas shall be covered by plants or vegetative
growth.



      (3)   Use of pervious surfaces. No person shall deposit grass
clippings, leaves or other vegetative materials, with the exception of normal
mowing or weed control, within natural or human-made watercourses, wetlands
or within wetland buffer areas. No person shall deposit items included in the
definition of “prohibited discharge”, except as noted above.



   (B)   Failure to comply with this section of the chapter shall
constitute a violation and subject the landowner to the enforcement
provisions, penalties and non-compliance fees outlined in §§ 54.070 through
54.073 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 54.04)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)  Penalty, see §
54.999



§ 54.005  USE OF STORM WATER PONDS.



   It will be unlawful for any person to wade, swim or operate any vehicle
in or upon the waters of any city storm water wet pond, or to go upon the
frozen surface of any city storm water wet pond, unless such use is
specifically approved in writing by the City Engineer.



(2004 Code, § 54.05)  (Ord. 11-0667, passed 4-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
54.999



STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN - APPLICATION AND REVIEW



§ 54.020  APPLICATION AND CONTENT.



   (A)   A written storm water management plan shall be filed with the
City Engineer as required by this chapter. The storm water management plan
shall include a statement indicating the grounds upon which the approval is
requested, that the proposed use is permitted in the underlying zoning
district and adequate evidence showing the proposed use will conform to the
standards set forth in this chapter and the Minnesota Storm Water Manual
(hereinafter referred to as the Manual). Prior to seeking approval of a storm
water management plan, it is recommended that the storm water management plan
be reviewed by any affected public agencies.



   (B)   Two sets of legible copies of the drawings and required
information shall be submitted to the City Engineer at the time of plat
approval or when applying for a building permit. Plans shall be prepared to a
scale appropriate to the site of the project and suitable for performing the
review.



   (C)   At a minimum, the storm water management plan shall contain
the following information. A written storm water management report discussing
the pre- and post-development hydrologic and hydraulic analysis, erosion and
sedimentation control during and after construction, protective measures for
proposed and existing structures, and water quality concerns shall also be
provided. For additional information, refer to storm water management
approval standards in §§ 54.035 through 54.042 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 54.10)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.021  REVIEW PROCESS.



   A storm water management plan meeting the requirements of this section
shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and to determine its
compliance with the standards as outlined in the storm water management plan
approval standards set forth in §§ 54.035 through 54.042 of this chapter.
The City Engineer shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the storm
water management plan. If a particular storm water management plan involves a
complex application or has the potential for significant controversy, the
City Engineer may bring the proposed storm water management plan before the
City Council for consideration and public comment. The City Engineer may also
require that the proposed storm water management plan be reviewed by a third
party engineer at the applicant’s expense.



(2004 Code, § 54.11)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.022  DURATION.



   Approval of any plan submitted under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire one year after the date of approval unless construction has
commenced in accordance with the plan. However, if prior to the expiration of
approval, the applicant makes a written request to the City Engineer for an
extension of time to commence construction setting forth the reasons for the
requested extension, the City Engineer may grant one extension of not greater
than one year. The City Engineer shall acknowledge receipt of any request for
an extension and shall make a decision on the extension within 30 days of
receipt. Any expired and/or revised plan may be resubmitted following the
same procedure for an original approval. Any denied or expired plan may be
resubmitted with additional information addressing the concerns contained
within the denial. The resubmitted application shall be subject to the
applicable review timelines.



(2004 Code, § 54.12)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.023  CONDITIONS.



   (A)   A storm water management plan may be approved subject to
compliance with conditions reasonable and necessary to ensure that the
requirements contained in this chapter are met. Such conditions may, among
other matters, limit the size, kind or character of the proposed development,
require the construction of structures, drainage facilities, storage basins
and other facilities, require replacement of vegetation, establish required
monitoring procedures, stage the work over time, require alteration of the 
site design to ensure proper buffering, require the acquisition or dedication
of certain lands or easements and require the conveyance to the city or other
public entity of certain lands or interests therein for storm water system
facilities.



   (B)   The City Engineer may specify special requirements or
conditions for specific major or minor watersheds within the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction.



   (C)   The nature of these requirements will be subject to the unique
environmental and natural resource environment of each sub-watershed.
Approval of a plan shall bind the applicant to perform and comply with all
the requirements and conditions of the plan prior to commencing or concurrent
with any land disturbing activities.



(2004 Code, § 54.13)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN - APPROVAL STANDARDS



§ 54.035  GENERAL.



   (A)   This section describes the approval standards used to evaluate
a proposed storm water management plan. The City Engineer shall not approve a
storm water management plan, which fails to meet these standards. Other
applicable standards, such as state and federal standards, shall also apply.
If the standards of different agencies conflict, the more restrictive
standards shall apply.



   (B)   It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to obtain any
required permits from other governmental agencies having any jurisdictional
authority over the work to be performed. Typically, such agencies include,
but are not limited to, the county, the State Department of Natural
Resources, the State Department of Transportation, the State Pollution
Control Agency, the State Historical Preservation Office, the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Emergency
Management Agency and others. The city may choose to obtain some of the
required permits. The applicant will be notified which permits are to be
obtained by the city.



(2004 Code, § 54.20)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008)



§ 54.036  MINNESOTA STORM WATER MANUAL.



   The Minnesota Storm Water Manual contains the principal standards and
design criteria for developing an effective and acceptable storm water
management plan. The Manual contains an overview of the state’s storm water
management policy and design objectives as well as a detailed discussion of
the required contents for storm water management plans submitted to the state
for approval. The Manual contains detailed criteria for hydrologic
evaluations, the design of storm water management system facility components,
water quality protection standards, instructions for the development of an
erosion and sedimentation control plan. The Manual also contains a discussion
of operation and maintenance requirements, standard forms to be used, and
standard construction details approved by the state.



(2004 Code, § 54.21)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008)



§ 54.037  MODELS/METHODOLOGIES/COMPUTATIONS.



   Other than those outlined in the Manual, any hydrologic models and/or
design methodologies used to determine runoff conditions and to analyze storm
water management structures and facilities, shall be approved in advance by
the City Engineer. All storm water management plans, drawings, specifications
and computations for storm water management facilities submitted for review
shall contain a validated seal and shall be signed by a professional engineer
registered in the state.



(2004 Code, § 54.22)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008)



§ 54.038  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT CRITERIA FOR PERMANENT FACILITIES.



   Storm water control facilities included as part of the final design for
a permanent development shall be addressed in the storm water management plan
and shall meet the requirements of the State NPDES general permit to
discharge stormwater associated with construction activity and the following
criteria.



   (A)   Pre- versus post-hydrological response of site. An applicant
shall install or construct, on or for the proposed land disturbing activity
or development activity, all storm water management facilities necessary to
manage runoff such that increases in flow under the design conditions will
not occur that could exceed the capacity of the outlet, or the storm water
management system, into which the site discharges or that would cause the
storm water management system to be overloaded or accelerate channel erosion
as a result of the proposed land disturbing activity or development activity.
Under no circumstances shall the two-, ten- or 100-year developed peak flow
exceed the two-, ten- or 100-year existing peak flow without prior written
approval by the City Engineer. For regional detention or storm water
management system, the City Engineer shall recommend a proposed system charge
or assessment to be approved by the City Council based upon an approved
watershed master plan and an analysis of required drainage systems, projected
costs and flood protection benefits provided to those properties directly or
indirectly impacted by the regional detention or storm water management
system.



   (B)   Natural features of the site. The applicant shall give
consideration to reducing the need for storm water management system
facilities by incorporating the use of natural topography and land cover such
as wetlands, ponds, natural swales and depressions as they exist before
development to the degree that they can accommodate the additional water flow
without compromising the integrity or quality of these natural features.



   (C)   Storm water management strategies.



      (1)   The following storm water management practices shall be
investigated when developing a storm water management plan in accordance with
this chapter and with  § 53.139 of this chapter:



         (a)   Natural infiltration of precipitation and runoff
on-site, if suitable soil profiles can be created during site grading. The
purpose of this strategy is to encourage the development of a storm water
management plan that encourages natural infiltration. This includes,
providing as much natural or vegetated area on the site as possible,
minimizing impervious surfaces and directing runoff to vegetated areas rather
than onto adjoining streets, storm sewers and ditches;



         (b)   Flow attenuation by use of open vegetated swales
and natural depressions;



         (c)   Storm water detention facilities;



         (d)   Storm water retention facilities (on a case by
case basis); and



         (e)   Other facilities requested by the City Engineer.



      (2)   A combination of successive practices may be used to
achieve the applicable minimum control requirements specified. Justification
shall be provided by the applicant for the method selected. For sites of a
redevelopment construction activity where, prior to the start of
construction, the areas to be disturbed have 15% or more of impervious
surface, then the practices must be designed to meet the following conditions:



         (a)   A new reduction from pre-project conditions (on an
annual average basis) of:



            1.   Stormwater discharge volume, unless precluded
by the stormwater management limitations in § 54.038(F) of this code;



            2.   Stormwater discharges of TSS; or



            3.   Stormwater discharges of TP.



   (D)   Adequacy of outlets. The adequacy of any outlet used as a
discharge point for proposed storm water management system must be assessed
and documented to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. To the extent
practicable, hydraulic capacities of downstream natural channels, storm sewer
systems or streets shall be evaluated to determine if they have sufficient
conveyance capacity to receive and accommodate post-development runoff
discharges and volumes without causing increased property damages or any
increase in the established base flood elevation. If a flood plain or
floodway has not been established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
the applicant shall provide a documented analysis and estimate of the base
flood elevation as certified by a professional engineer registered in the
state. In addition, projected velocities in downstream natural or manmade
channels shall not exceed that which is reasonably anticipated to cause
erosion unless protective measures acceptable to the City Engineer are
approved and installed as part of the storm water management plan. The
assessment of outlet adequacy shall be included in the storm water management
plan.



   (E)   Storm water detention/retention facilities. Storm water
detention or retention facilities proposed to be constructed in the storm
water management plan shall be designed according to the most current
practices as reflected in the Nationwide Urban Runoff Program study.



   (F)   Infiltration. Infiltration facilities are prohibited, unless
approved by the City Engineer, when receiving discharges from, or are to be
constructed in areas:



      (1)   Where industrial facilities are not authorized to
infiltrate industrial stormwater under an NPDES/SDS industrial stormwater
permit issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency;



      (2)   Where vehicle fueling and maintenance occur;



      (3)   With less than three feet of separation distance from
the bottom of the infiltration system to the elevation of the seasonally
saturated soils or the top of bedrock;



      (4)   Where high levels of contaminants in soil or groundwater
will be mobilized by the infiltrating stormwater;



      (5)   With predominately Hydrologic Soil Group D (clay) soils;
or



      (6)   Within a Drinking Water Supply Management Area (DWSMA)
as defined in Minn. Rules 4720.5100, subpart 13.



   (G)   Mitigation provisions. There may be circumstances where the
owner of a construction activity cannot cost effectively meet the conditions
of the State NPDES general permit to discharge stormwater associated with
construction activity on the site of the original construction activity. For
this purpose the owner of a construction activity may identify locations
where mitigation projects can be completed. Mitigation must be accomplished
using the following:



      (1)   Mitigation project areas are selected in the following
order of preference:



         (a)   Locations that yield benefits to the same
receiving water that receives runoff from the original construction activity;



         (b)   Locations within the same Department of Natural
Resource (DNR) catchment area as the original construction activity;



         (c)   Locations in the next adjacent DNR catchment area
up-stream; and



         (d)   Locations anywhere within city jurisdiction.



      (2)   Mitigation projects must involve the creation of new
structural storm water BMPs or the retrofit of existing structural storm
water BMPs, or the use of a properly designated regional structural storm
water BMP.



      (3)   Routine maintenance of existing structural storm water
BMPs cannot be used to meet mitigation requirements.



      (4)   Mitigation projects shall be completed within 24 months
after the start of the original construction activity.



(2004 Code, § 54.23)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008; Ord. 15- 0737, passed 3-24-2015; Ord. 16-0757, passed 4-26-2016;
Ord. 17-773, passed 6-27-2017)



§ 54.039  OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION.



   All storm water management systems shall be designed to minimize the
need for maintenance, to provide easy vehicle (typically eight feet or wider)
and personnel access for maintenance purposes, and to be structurally sound.
All storm water management systems shall have a plan of operation and
maintenance that assures continued effective removal of pollutants carried in
storm water runoff. The City Engineer may inspect all public and private
storm water management systems at any time. Inspection records will be kept
on file at the City Engineer’s office. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to obtain any necessary easements or other property interests
to allow access to the storm water management system for inspection and
maintenance purposes. The owner must perform routine maintenance and
inspections that are required annually and includes mowing grass, controlling
weeds and woody vegetation, repairing eroded areas and removing debris. A
ponds buffer should be maintained as a meadow, prairie or forest with no more
than two mowings annually at a height of no less than four inches. The owner
must perform non-routine maintenance which includes sediment cleanout and
major structural repairs when needed. Inspections for non-routine maintenance
items must occur at a minimum of every five years. Sediment cleanout must
occur when 50% of the permanent pool storage volume is sediment. The City
Engineer shall retain enforcement  powers for assuring adequate operation
and maintenance activities through perm it conditions, penalties,
non-compliance orders and fees.



(2004 Code, § 54.24)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008)



§ 54.040  EASEMENTS.



   Easements may be required as conditions to the issuance of a storm
water management plan approval. If a storm water management plan involves
directing some or all of the site’s runoff to a drainage easement, the
applicant or his or her designated representative shall obtain from the
property owners any necessary easements or other property interests
concerning the flowing of such water. No fill, structures, fences, walls,
rip-rap, buildings, docks, bridges, fountains or other similar encumbrances
to access or restrictions to the flow of water may be placed within the
drainage easement without the prior written consent of the city.



(2004 Code, § 54.25)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008)  Penalty, see § 54.999



§ 54.041  PLAN APPLICABILITY.



   A storm water management plan approval issued under this chapter runs
with the land and is a condition of plat or development approval. Any
landowner or subsequent landowner of any parcel within the plat or
development area must comply with the plan or any approval, condition,
revision or modification of the plan. The landowner must also comply with all
applicable state subdivision registration, permit transfer/modification and
notice of termination permits and provide a copy of the permit applications
to the city for approval. Failure to comply with this plan shall constitute a
violation and subject the permittee, developer and/or landowner to the
enforcement provisions, penalties and non-compliance fees.



(2004 Code, § 54.26)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008)  Penalty, see § 54.999



§ 54.042  PLAN AMENDMENTS.



   (A)   Storm water management plans may be amended only by a written
request submitted to the City Engineer.



   (B)   This request shall contain the reason for the change and
documentation related to any additional change in projected impacts, which
may result from amendment approval.



   (C)   (1)   Amendment requests submitted prior to final approval
of a plan application shall be considered part of the original submittal.



      (2)   Amendment requests filed after plan approval shall be
considered following the same procedures as if it were a new application and
subject to applicable review periods.



(2004 Code, § 54.27)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 08-0497, passed
3-25-2008)



NPDES PERMIT



§ 54.055  NPDES PERMIT.



   It is unlawful to initiate any land development activity, land
disturbing activity or other activities which may result in an increase in
storm water quantities, degradation of storm water quality or restriction of
flow in any storm sewer system, open ditch or natural channel, storm water
easement, water body or wetland outlet within the jurisdiction of the city,
without having first complied with the terms of this chapter. Other
activities include those outlined in § 54.003 of this chapter.



   (A)   Permit. All persons subject to meeting the requirements and
needing to obtain a NPDES permit for construction activity shall apply for
coverage and file a copy with the City Engineer. The permit will be
accompanied by a storm water management plan as prescribed under the storm
water management plan application and review provisions set forth in §§
54.020 through 54.023 of this chapter, if such a plan has not been previously
approved. Permit applications may be denied if the applicant is not in
compliance with the NPDES permit for construction activity currently in
effect. Commencing earthwork on a project prior to plan or permit approval is
considered a violation of this chapter.



   (B)   Permit delays. The City Engineer may withhold granting
approval of a permit until all issues associated with the site are resolved
to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. Permits may be conditioned with
delays such that work cannot begin until a specified date or until after the
site is inspected.



   (C)   Permit amendments.  NPDES permit for construction activity
may be amended (by applicant) only by a written request submitted by the
permittee to the state. This request shall contain the reason for the change
and documentation related to any additional impacts, which may result from
amendment approval. A copy of the request will be submitted to the City
Engineer within seven days of the submittal to the state. The state approved
amended permit will also be submitted to the City Engineer within seven days
of receipt.



   (D)   Permit transfer. A NPDES permit for construction activity runs
with the property it covers, until the permitted activities are completed,
and is transferable to new landowners in its entirety or by parcel, with each
parcel being subject to the permit and any conditions which apply to that
parcel. Land transfers must be reported to the City Engineer prior to issuing
of permits.



   (E)   Inspection.



      (1)   The City Engineer may inspect the storm water management
system of any permittee to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. The applicant shall promptly allow the City and its authorized
representatives, upon presentation of credentials to:



         (a)   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of
obtaining information, examination of records, conducting investigations,
inspections or surveys;



         (b)   Bring such equipment upon the permitted site as is
necessary to conduct such inspections, surveys and investigations;



         (c)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or
memoranda pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the
terms and conditions of this permitted site;



         (d)   Inspect the storm water pollution control
measures; and



         (e)   Sample and monitor any items or activities
pertaining to storm water pollution control measures.



      (2)   Any applicant or permittee shall provide safe and easy
access for inspections.



   (F)   Inspections of the storm water pollution prevention plan’s
measures. At a minimum, such inspections shall be done weekly by the
permittee (general contractor, developer or the developer’s designated
representative), and within 24 hours after every storm or snow melt event
large enough to result in runoff from the site (one-half inch or more in 24
hours). At a minimum, these inspections shall be done during active
construction (the MPCA and city have inspection forms available upon request).



(2004 Code, § 54.030)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 17-773, passed
6-27-2017)



§ 54.056  CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.



   (A)   The plans and specifications prepared for the construction of
the storm water management system must be:



      (1)   Consistent with the storm water management plan approved
by the City Engineer, including any special provisions or conditions;



      (2)   In conformance with the requirements of the city’s
municipal specifications, and any other necessary permits required and issued
by other governmental agencies;



      (3)   Sealed and signed by a professional engineer registered
in the state;



      (4)   Submitted to the City Engineer for approval; and



      (5)   Approved by the City Engineer prior to commencing
construction.



   (B)   The construction grading and erosion/sediment control plans,
in a format acceptable to the City Engineer, shall contain a drawing or
drawings delineating the features incorporated into the storm water pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) including details of perimeter protection,
construction phasing, storm drain inlet protection, erosion control measures,
temporary and final stabilization measures, including all BMPs. In addition
the construction specifications shall contain technical provisions describing
erosion, sedimentation and water control measures to be utilized during and
after construction as well as to define the entities responsible for the
installation and maintenance of the BMPs. The project SWPPP must be
incorporated into the construction specification documents.



(2004 Code, § 54.31)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.057  CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.



   Construction operations must at a minimum comply with any applicable
federal or state permit and SWPPP in addition to the following best
management practices.



   (A)   Site dewatering. Water pumped from the site shall be treated
by temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow
chambers, hydro-cyclones, soil concentrators or other appropriate controls as
deemed necessary. Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes
erosion, sedimentation or flooding on the site, on downstream properties, in
the receiving channels or in any wetland.



   (B)   Waste and material disposal. All waste and unused building
materials (including garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, petroleum
based products, paints, toxic materials or other hazardous materials) shall
be properly disposed of off-site and shall not be allowed to be carried by
runoff into a receiving channel, storm sewer system or wetland.



   (C)   Tracking management. Each site shall have roads, access drives
and parking areas of sufficient width, length and surfacing to minimize
sediment from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any material
deposited by vehicles or other construction equipment onto a public or
private road shall be removed (not by flushing) before the end of each days
work.



   (D)   Water quality protection. The construction contractor,
including the general contractor and all subcontractors, shall be required to
control oil and fuel spills and chemical discharges to prevent such spills or
discharges from entering any watercourse, sump, sewer system, water body or
wetland.



   (E)   Site erosion and sedimentation control. Construction
operations must include erosion and sedimentation control measures meeting
accepted design criteria, standards and specifications contained in the
Minnesota Storm Water Manual or other standards determined by the City
Engineer.



   (F)   Water quantity.



      (1)   The construction contractor, including the general
contractor and all subcontractors, shall be required to minimize the volume
of surface water runoff which flows from any specific site during development.



      (2)   This volume is not to exceed the pre-development
hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable.



(2004 Code, § 54.032)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



SUSPENSIONS, REVOCATIONS AND STOP WORK ORDERS



§ 54.070  STORM WATER VIOLATIONS AND REPORTING.



   Storm water management plan, NPDES permit and non-permit related storm
water violations include, but are not limited to:



   (A)   Commencing site grading or preparation work without first
having obtained approval from the City Engineer of all applicable permits;



   (B)   Non-compliance with the requirements or conditions attached to
an approved SWPPP of an NPDES/SDS storm water permit for construction
activity, storm water management plan or other standards established by the
City Engineer, under authority of the city;



   (C)   The causing or allowing of a prohibited discharge in the city
storm water system, a natural watercourse, storm water easement, stream or
river;



   (D)   Failure to remove sediments transported or tracked onto city
streets by vehicles or construction traffic within 24 hours of it being
deposited on the street;



   (E)   Failure to install and maintain the erosion control measures
(BMPs) on a construction site as outlined in the approved SWPPP and its
amendments or other standards established by the City Engineer, under
authority of the city;



   (F)   Other violations or issues as noted or described throughout
this chapter;



   (G)   The causing or allowing of an illicit connection to the city
storm water management system; and



   (H)   The City Engineer shall document the reporting of a violation
in writing.



(2004 Code, § 54.040)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007; Ord. 15-0737,
passed 3-24-2015)



§ 54.071  EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.



   (A)   The City Engineer may for cause order the suspension of a
storm water management plan when the City Engineer determines that an actual
or threatened discharge presents or may present an imminent or substantial
danger to the health or welfare of persons downstream, or substantial danger
to the environment. If such a suspension occurs, all work in the area covered
by the plan shall cease immediately. If any person is notified of such
suspension and then fails to comply voluntarily with the suspension order,
the city shall commence whatever steps are necessary to obtain compliance.
The City Engineer may reinstate the storm water management plan upon proof of
compliance with all plans or permit conditions. The City Engineer may also
order the immediate suspension of all work if a person or entity is
conducting an activity for which a permit is needed without first obtaining
the appropriate permit. The suspension shall remain in effect until the
required permit(s) are obtained.



   (B)   Whenever the City Engineer orders the suspension of a plan
and/or orders all work to stop pursuant to the emergency provisions of this
section, the City Engineer shall serve notice on the landowner and/or
permittee personally, or by registered or certified mail.



(2004 Code, § 54.41)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.072  NON-EMERGENCY REVOCATION OF A PLAN.



   (A)   A storm water management plan may be revoked following notice.
The City Engineer may revoke a plan or permit for cause, including, but not
limited to:



      (1)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the applicable
plan or permit;



      (2)   False statements on any required reports and
applications;



      (3)   Obtaining a plan or permit by misrepresentation or
failure to disclose fully all relevant facts; or



      (4)   Any other violation of this chapter or related ordinance.



   (B)   The City Engineer may revoke a storm water management plan and
order a work stoppage to bring a project into compliance. Notice of such an
order shall be given in accordance with § 54.073 of this chapter. Under a
revoked plan no additional permit approvals (i.e., building, excavation and
the like) shall be issued for any properties within the area included within
the plan or permit boundaries until approved by the City Engineer. In
addition the city may deny new permits (i.e., building, excavation and the
like) to the permittee or landowner in violation for projects in other
locations until current permits are brought into compliance.



(2004 Code, § 54.42)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.073  NOTIFICATION.



   (A)   Whenever the City Engineer finds that any person has violated
or is violating this chapter, the City Engineer shall serve upon such person
a written notice stating the nature of the violation. A plan satisfactory to
the Engineer for correction thereof must be submitted to the City Engineer
within an approved time frame. If a satisfactory plan is not submitted or the
terms of such plan are not followed, the City Engineer may order all work in
the affected area to cease. The City Engineer reserves the right to have the
required work to be completed by others at the owner’s expense.



   (B)   If any person commences any land disturbing activities which
result in increased storm water quantity or storm water quality degradation
into the city’s storm water management system contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, federal or state requirements or any order of the City
Engineer, the City Attorney may, commence action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief including administrative or criminal penalties.



(2004 Code, § 54.43)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND NON-COMPLIANCE FEES



§ 54.085  ENFORCEMENT, PENALTY AND NON-COMPLIANCE FEES.



   Any person who is found to have violated an order of the City Engineer
made in accordance with this chapter, or who has failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter and the orders, rules, regulations and permits
issued hereunder, is guilty of an offense. Each day on which a violation
occurs or continues to exist shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
All land use and building permits may be suspended until the applicant has
corrected the violation. One re-inspection of a site will be allowed before
any re-inspection fees will be applied. Reasonable non-compliance and
re-inspection fees may be imposed for violation of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 54.50)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.086  COSTS OF DAMAGE.



   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or who
initiates an activity which causes a deposit, obstruction or damage or other
impairment to the city’s storm water management system is liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage caused by the violation or the
discharge. The city may bill the person violating this chapter the costs for
any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by the violation of storm
water discharge, and if unpaid within 90 days may result in assessment of
such costs against the violator’s property.



(2004 Code, § 54.51)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.087  CITY ATTORNEY’S FEES AND COSTS.



   In addition to the civil penalties provided herein, the city may
recover reasonable attorneys fees, court costs, court reporter’s fees and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate action against the person found
to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations and permits
issued hereunder.



(2004 Code, § 54.52)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)



§ 54.088  FALSIFYING INFORMATION.



   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certification in any applicable record, report, plan, permit or other
document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who
knowingly falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring devices or method required under this chapter, shall be guilty of
an offense.



(2004 Code, § 54.53)  (Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-2007)  Penalty, see §
54.999



§ 54.999  PENALTY.



   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, in addition to
other sanctions set forth above, may be charged with a criminal misdemeanor,
and if convicted may be penalized in accordance with the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.



(Ord. 07-0462, passed 4-24-07)



TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE



   Chapter



      70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS



      71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS



      72.   PARKING REGULATIONS



      73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLES



      74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES



CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS



Section



   70.01   Definitions



   70.02   Application



   70.03   Scope



   70.04   Orders of officers; compliance required



   70.05   Traffic and parking control



   70.06   State statutes adopted by reference



   70.07   Violations



§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.



   Except as otherwise defined in this code, or where the context clearly
indicates a contrary intent, the words and terms defined in M.S. Ch. 169, as
it may be amended from time to time, shall be applicable to this title and to
Ch. 90 of this code of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 70.01)



§ 70.02  APPLICATION.



   The provisions of this title and Ch. 90 of this code of ordinances are
applicable to the drivers of all vehicles and animals upon streets,
including, but not limited to, those owned or operated by the United States,
the state or any county, town, city, district or other political subdivision.



(2004 Code, § 70.02)



§ 70.03  SCOPE.



   The provisions of this title and Ch. 90 of this code of ordinances
relate exclusively to the streets and alleys in the city, and the operation
and parking of vehicles refers exclusively to the operation and parking of
vehicles upon those streets and alleys.



(2004 Code, § 70.03)



§ 70.04  ORDERS OF OFFICERS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.



   It is a misdemeanor for any person to willfully fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of any police or peace officer
invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.



(2004 Code, § 70.04)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 70.05  TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL.



   (A)   Council action. No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and directed the same, except as otherwise provided in this section;
provided that, when traffic and parking control is marked or signposted, the
marking or signposting shall attest to Council action thereon.



   (B)   Temporary restrictions. The city, acting through the Chief of
Police, may temporarily restrict traffic or parking for any private, public
or experimental purpose. It is the duty of the Chief of Police to so restrict
traffic or parking when a hazardous condition arises or is observed.



   (C)   Traffic restrictions and prohibitions. It is a misdemeanor for
any person to drive a vehicle contrary to lane restrictions or prohibitions
painted on any street, or contrary to signposted, fenced or barricaded
restrictions or prohibitions.



   (D)   Parking restrictions and prohibitions. It is unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, contrary to lane
restrictions or prohibitions painted on any curb, or contrary to signposted,
fenced or barricaded restrictions or prohibitions.



   (E)   Damaging or moving markings. It is a misdemeanor for any
person to deface, mar, damage, move, remove or in any way tamper with any
structure, work, material, equipment, tools, sign, signal, barricade, fence,
painting or appurtenance in any street unless that person has written
permission from the city or is an agent, employee or contractor for the city,
or other authority having jurisdiction over a particular street, and acting
within the authority or scope of a contract with the city or the other
authority.



(2004 Code, § 70.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 70.06  STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.



   Except as otherwise provided in this title or in Ch. 90 of this code of
ordinances, M.S. Ch. 169 (commonly referred to as the Highway Traffic
Regulation Act), as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
incorporated herein and adopted by reference. The penalty for the violation
of the provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time,
adopted by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty
provided for in that chapter for the same offense.



(2004 Code, § 70.06)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 70.07  VIOLATIONS.



   (A)   Every person violates a section, division or provision of this
title when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when that failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful.



   (B)   Upon conviction of the above, the person shall be punished as
follows.



      (1)   Where the specific section, division or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, the person shall be punished as
for a misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, the person shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where the person
stands convicted of violation of any provision of this title, exclusive of
violations relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle,
within the immediate preceding 12-month period for the third or subsequent
time, that person shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.



      (2)   As to any violations not constituting a misdemeanor
under the provisions of division (B)(1) above, the person shall be punished
as for a petty misdemeanor.



(2004 Code, § 70.07)  Penalty, see § 10.99



CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS



Section



   71.01   Parades



   71.02   Load limits



   71.03   Truck routes



   71.04   U-turns restricted



   71.05   Exhibition driving prohibited



   71.06   Traffic congestion streets; restrictions; exemptions



   71.07   One-way streets



   71.08   Driving through private property to avoid traffic-control
device



   71.09   Emergency vehicles



   71.10   Excessive vehicle noise prohibited



§ 71.01  PARADES.



   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      PARADE. Any movement of vehicles, persons or animals, or any
combination thereof, which either moves together and as a body so as to in
some way impede or affect the free and unobstructed flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, or which moves so that some part thereof is in violation
of one or more traffic laws or regulations, if that movement is without a
permit hereunder.



   (B)   Permit required. It is unlawful to sponsor or participate in a
parade for which no permit has been obtained from the city, and it is also
unlawful to obtain a parade permit and not conduct the same in accordance
with the permit granted by the city. Application for this permit shall be
made to the City Administrator at least 20 days in advance of the date on
which it is to occur and shall state the sponsoring organization or
individual, the route, the length, the estimated time of commencement and
termination and the general composition; and the application shall be
executed by the individuals applying therefor or the duly authorized agent or
representative of the sponsoring organization.



   (C)   Investigation. The City Administrator shall forthwith refer
all applications for parades to the Chief of Police, the City Engineer and
the Street Superintendent for their consideration, which shall take no longer
than seven days. If any state trunk highways are in the route, the Chief of
Police shall make all necessary arrangements with the State Department of
Public Safety for alternate routes or whatever may be necessary. If it is
found that the parade will not cause a hazard to persons or property, and
will cause no great inconvenience to the public and, if arrangements for
necessary direction and control of traffic can be made, the Chief of Police,
the City Engineer and the Street Superintendent shall endorse their
acceptances and return the application to the City Administrator. If it is
found that the parade described in the application would be a hazard or a
substantial inconvenience, or if adequate arrangements for direction or
control of traffic cannot be made, the application shall be returned to the
City Administrator with those findings.



   (D)   Council action. The City Administrator shall refer the
application and results of investigation to the Council at its next regular
meeting. The Council may either deny the permit, grant the permit or grant
the permit on condition that a date, time or route are acceptable to the
applicant which differ from that as stated in the application. The applicant
shall have three days within which to communicate his or her acceptance to
the city.



   (E)   Unlawful acts.



      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to hamper, obstruct,
impede or interfere with any parade, parade assembly or any person, animal or
vehicle participating in the parade.



      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when the parade is in motion.



      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to enter into a parade
without prior authorization from the parade chair.



   (F)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:



      (1)   Funeral processions; or



      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its
functions.



(2004 Code, § 71.01)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.02  LOAD LIMITS.



   The City Administrator, upon the recommendation of the City Engineer,
may from time to time impose upon vehicular traffic on any part or all of the
streets, load limits as may be necessary or desirable. These limits, and the
specific extent or weight to which loads are limited, shall be clearly and
legibly signposted thereon. It is a misdemeanor for any person to operate a
vehicle on any street in violation of the limitation so posted.



(2004 Code, § 71.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.03  TRUCK ROUTES.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive a tractor, agricultural
implement, truck over five tons gross vehicle weight, truck-trailer,
tractor-trailer or truck-tractor in through traffic, upon any street except
those which have been designated and signposted as truck routes.



   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      LOCAL TRAFFIC. Traffic either originating or having a destination
within the city.



      THROUGH TRAFFIC. Traffic originating without the city and with a
destination without the city, as distinguished from local traffic.



(2004 Code, § 71.03)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.04  U-TURNS RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle by turning so
as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street except at a street
intersection, and then only if the street intersection is not signposted
prohibiting a U-turn or otherwise controlled by a traffic signal; provided
that, any person making a permitted U-turn shall yield the right-of-way to
all other vehicles.



(2004 Code, § 71.04)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.05  EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.



   (A)   Prima facie evidence. It is prima facie evidence of exhibition
driving when a motor vehicle stops, starts, accelerates, decelerates or turns
at an unnecessary rate of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears to
grind, soil or snow to be thrown, engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding,
or, as to two-wheeled or three-wheeled motor vehicles, the front wheel to
lose contact with the ground or roadway surface.



   (B)   Unlawful act. It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to do
any exhibition driving on any street, parking lot or other public or private
property, except when an emergency creates necessity for that type of
operation to prevent injury to persons or damage to property; provided that,
this section shall not apply to driving on a racetrack.



   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      RACETRACK. Any track or premises whereon motorized vehicles,
horses, dogs or other animals or fowl legally compete in a race or timed
contest for an audience, the members of which have directly or indirectly
paid a consideration for admission.



(2004 Code, § 71.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.06  TRAFFIC CONGESTION STREETS; RESTRICTIONS; EXEMPTIONS.



   (A)   Findings and purpose.



      (1)   The repeated driving of a motor vehicle along or across
one portion of a public street creates vehicle congestion along the street
and at the intersections, which blocks access by emergency vehicles,
interferes with vehicular traffic passing along and across the congested
street and also interferes with vehicular traffic attempting to get to
businesses and residences located along congested streets.



      (2)   The enforcement of existing traffic regulations as a
means of preventing this traffic congestion has proven to be inadequate to do
so.



      (3)   New code provisions are needed to reduce traffic
congestion on and across traffic congestion streets.



      (4)   The purpose of this section is to prohibit the repeated
driving of a motor vehicle along and across one portion of a congested public
street, which shall constitute a strict liability violation without any
requirement of culpable mental state, all as described in this section.



   (B)   Traffic congestion street defined. For the purpose of this
section, the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.



      TRAFFIC CONGESTION STREET. Any portion of a public street
affected by traffic congestion caused in whole or in part by the repeated
driving of the same motor vehicles along or across that portion of the street.



   (C)   Signs. Traffic congestion streets shall be signposted to
notify drivers that they are entering a traffic congestion street, that
repeated passage of a motor vehicle through or across the traffic congestion
street is a violation of this code and that for a subsequent violation, the
vehicle will be towed.



   (D)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for the owner or driver of any
motor vehicle to cause or permit that vehicle, between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning, to pass along or across a traffic
congestion street more than two times.



   (E)   Subsequent violations. If a vehicle passes along or across a
traffic congestion street in violation of this section, any single subsequent
drive-through of that traffic congestion street by that vehicle within the
same 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. time period shall constitute a separate violation
of this section; and the vehicle may be towed and taken to a storage area
designated by the city and may be held for not more than 24 hours, all at the
expense of the owner or person entitled to possession.



   (F)   Notice of towing for subsequent violations. Upon issuing a
citation for a violation of this section, the officer shall give the person
to whom the citation is issued a written notice which shall state: 
“Notice:  You have been cited for violation of City Code Section 71.06 for
repeated passage of a motor vehicle on or across a traffic congestion street.
If the vehicle you are driving is again driven along or across this traffic
congestion street before 5:00 a.m. next following citation, this vehicle
shall be impounded and towed. Chief of Police.”



   (G)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to:



      (1)   Any publicly owned vehicle of the city, county, school
district, state or federal agency;



      (2)   Any vehicle licensed for public transportation; or



      (3)   Any other vehicle granted an exemption by the Chief of
Police because passage of the vehicle along or across the traffic congestion
street is necessary for commercial or medical reasons.



(2004 Code, § 71.06)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.07  ONE-WAY STREETS.



   (A)   The Council may, by resolution, designate streets as one-way
streets.



   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to travel upon any one-way
street in a direction opposite that designated when the same has been duly
signposted.



(2004 Code, § 71.07)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.08  DRIVING THROUGH PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.



   It is unlawful for any person to avoid obedience to any traffic-control
sign, signal or device by driving upon or through any private property.



(2004 Code, § 71.08)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 71.09  EMERGENCY VEHICLES.



   The provisions of §§ 70.06, 71.03 through 71.09, 73.01 through 73.05,
73.20, 73.21 and 73.36 shall not apply to vehicles when operated with due
regard for safety, under the direction of police officers, firefighters or
ambulance personnel when responding to any emergency call, or in the
immediate pursuit of actual or suspected violators of the law or of persons
charged with or suspected of any violation. This exemption shall not,
however, protect the driver of any emergency vehicle from the consequences of
a reckless disregard of the safety of others.



(2004 Code, § 71.09)



§ 71.10  EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE PROHIBITED.



   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Includes:



         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that
unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort and repose of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their
property’s value;



         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. §
169.69, as it may be amended from time to time, which requires every motor
vehicle to be equipped with a muffler in good working order; or



         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. §
169.693, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules, parts
7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be amended
from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.



      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacobs
brake, c-brake, Paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine
retarding brake system which alters the normal compression of the engine and
subsequently releases that compression.



   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust
or permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through
a muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies
with all applicable state laws and regulations.



   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to
intentionally use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street,
parking lot or alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise
from the engine because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system,
except in an emergency.



   (D)   The provisions of M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693, as they may be
amended from time to time,  (motor vehicle noise limits) and Minn. Rules
parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.



   (E)   Signs stating “Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced” may be
installed at locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise
motorists of the prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign
stating “Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced” shall be installed on a state
highway without a permit from the State Department of Transportation. The
provisions of this section are in full force and effect even if no signs are
installed.



   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this section shall, on conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.



(2004 Code, § 71.11)  (Ord. 01-290, passed 2-27-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99



CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS



Section




Parking Restrictions and Prohibitions




   72.01   Parking, standing or stopping; prohibitions



   72.02   Parallel parking



   72.03   Angle parking



   72.04   Time-limited parking



   72.05   Emergency parking prohibition



   72.06   Truck parking restricted



   72.07   Motor home, trailer and recreational vehicle parking
restricted



   72.08   City lots and ramps



   72.09   Loading zones



   72.10   Vehicle repair on street or public parking lot restricted



   72.11   Parking for purpose of advertising or sale prohibited



   72.12   Physically disabled parking



   72.13   Fire lanes; rush hour traffic



   72.14   Parking on private property; consent required



   72.15   Declaration of snow emergency; parking prohibited




Administration and Enforcement




   72.30   Presumption; owner or lessee responsibility



   72.31   Vehicle removal and impoundment




PARKING RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS




§ 72.01  PARKING, STANDING OR STOPPING; PROHIBITIONS.



   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of
the following places:



   (A)   In any alley, except for loading or unloading and then only so
long as reasonably necessary for that loading and unloading to or from
adjacent premises; or



   (B)   On any boulevard which has been curbed.



(2004 Code, § 72.01)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.02  PARALLEL PARKING.



   (A)   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and
indicated by curb or street marking or signposting, or all or any of them,
each vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way road where there is an adjacent
curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle
parallel with, and within 12 inches of, the right-hand curb and, where
painted markings appear on the curb or the street, the vehicle shall be
within those markings, front and rear; provided that, upon a one-way roadway
all vehicles shall be so parked; except that, the left-hand wheels of the
vehicle may be parallel with and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb, but
the front of the vehicle in any event and with respect to the remainder of
the vehicle, shall be in the direction of the flow of traffic upon that
one-way street.



   (B)   It is unlawful to park in violation of this section.



(2004 Code, § 72.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.03  ANGLE PARKING.



   (A)   Where angle parking has been established by Council
resolution, and is allowed, as shown by curb or street marking or
signposting, or all or any of them, each vehicle stopped or parked shall be
at an angle of approximately 45 to 60 degrees with the front wheel touching
the curb and within any parking lines painted on the curb or street; provided
that, the front wheel not touching the curb shall be the portion of the
vehicle furthest in the direction of one-way traffic.



   (B)   It is unlawful to park in violation of this section.



(2004 Code, § 72.03)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.04  TIME-LIMITED PARKING.



   Parking on streets shall be limited as follows.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.



   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police may, when authorized by
resolution of the Council, designate certain streets, blocks or portions of
streets or blocks as prohibited parking zones, or five-minute, ten-minute,
15-minute, 30-minute, one-hour, two-hour, four-hour, six-hour, eight-hour or
morning or afternoon rush hour limited parking zones, and shall mark by
appropriate signs any zones so established.



      (2)   These zones shall be established whenever necessary for
the convenience of the public or to minimize traffic hazards and preserve a
free flow of traffic.



      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave
standing any vehicle in a prohibited parking zone, for a period of time in
excess of the signposted limitation, or during signposted hours of prohibited
parking.



(2004 Code, § 72.04)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.05  EMERGENCY PARKING PROHIBITION.



   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      EMERGENCY. A condition created on city streets because of the
presence of snow, freezing rain, sleet or ice thereon, or other natural
phenomena which create or are likely to create hazardous road conditions or
impede or are likely to impede the free movement of fire, health, police,
emergency or other vehicular traffic, when the same has been duly declared.



   (B)   Declaration of emergency. Whenever, in the opinion of the city
staff, an emergency exists, it shall be declared and notice given by
signposting as herein provided.



   (C)   Signs. Notice of an emergency shall be given by posting signs
in each block to which it is applicable.



      (1)   The signs shall state the parking prohibition by “No
Parking, Snow Removal (7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.)” or other similar wording.



      (2)   Two hours after posting, the parking prohibition shall
take effect.



   (D)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful to park or leave any vehicle
standing upon any street while an emergency is in effect or until that street
has been cleared, curb to curb or as to streets without curb, to its full
width.



   (E)   Exception. This section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles while those vehicles are being actively used in servicing
mechanical, fire, police or medical emergencies.



(2004 Code, § 72.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.06  TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTED.



   (A)   It is unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer upon any
street, city-owned parking lot or other public property, except those as are
specifically designated by the Council by resolution and signposted.



   (B)   It is unlawful to park a truck (other than a truck of 10,000
pounds gross vehicle weight or less), truck-trailer, tractor-trailer or
truck-tractor within an area zoned as a residential district, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading the same, and then only during the time as is
reasonably necessary for that activity.



   (C)   It is unlawful to park a commercial vehicle of more than
10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight upon any street in the business district,
except streets as specifically designated by the Council by resolution and
signposted, but parking of this type of vehicle for a period of not more than
20 minutes shall be permitted in that space for the purpose of necessary
access to abutting property while actively loading or unloading when access
cannot reasonably be secured from an alley or from an adjacent street where
truck parking is not so restricted.



   (D)   It is unlawful to park a truck or other vehicle using or
equipped with a trailer, or extended body or other extension or projection
beyond the original length of the vehicle, or any passenger bus, diagonally
along any street, except for a time sufficient to load or unload and, in that
case, only parallel parking shall be permitted; provided, however, that, a
truck may stand backed up to the curb if the weight or bulk of the load makes
parallel parking impracticable, but then only for a period of time sufficient
to load or unload.



   (E)   Parking of commercial vehicles is permitted in duly designated
and signposted loading zones, and in alleys, for the purpose of loading or
unloading the same and then only for a period of time as is reasonably
necessary for that activity; provided that, this alley parking does not
prevent the flow of traffic therein, all of which shall be for the purpose of
access to abutting or adjacent property while actively loading or unloading.



(2004 Code, § 72.06)  (Ord. 08-0498, passed 3-25-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 72.07  MOTOR HOME, TRAILER AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING RESTRICTED.



   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      MOTOR HOME, TRAILER and RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any of the
following:



         (a)   MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary building to be
used for travel, recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of
a self-propelled vehicle;



         (b)   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted
on a truck chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation;



         (c)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A boat or snowmobile;



         (d)   TRAILER, CAMPING. A folding structure, mounted on
wheels and designed for travel, recreation and vacation uses;



         (e)   TRAILER, TRAVEL. A vehicular, portable structure
built on a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreation and vacation uses; and



         (f)   TRAILER, OTHER. A vehicle which is not
self-propelled, regardless of the number of wheels with which it is equipped,
but which is designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle for transporting any
soil, material or other object including, but not limited to, boats,
snowmobiles and cargo, but not including semi-trailers or truck tractors.



   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to leave or park a
motor home, trailer or recreational vehicle as defined in this section on or
within the limits of any street or right-of-way for a continuous period in
excess of six hours, except where signs are erected designating the place as
a campsite or in a mobile home park; provided, however, that, during the
six-hour period, the vehicle shall not be occupied as living quarters.



(2004 Code, § 72.07)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.08  CITY LOTS AND RAMPS.



   (A)   In city owned parking lots and ramps, the Council may limit
the sizes and types of motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking
and prescribed method of parking; provided that, the limitations and
restrictions are marked or signposted thereon.



   (B)   It is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle backed
into a parking place, to drive in a direction opposite the flow of traffic
marked by one-way signs or arrows or to park any vehicle in any city owned
parking lot or ramp contrary to the restrictions or limitations marked or
signposted therein.



(2004 Code, § 72.08)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.09  LOADING ZONES.



   The Council may, by resolution, establish loading zones to be used for
the specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise from a commercial
vehicle or a vehicle temporarily being utilized in the transport of
merchandise. These loading zones shall be installed by order of the City
Administrator where in the judgment of the Council a commercial loading zone
is justified, and duly signposted.



(2004 Code, § 72.09)



§ 72.10  VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET OR PUBLIC PARKING LOT RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle
any vehicle parked upon a street or a publicly owned or publicly managed
parking lot, or attempt to do so, except to service the vehicle with gasoline
or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no event for more than
24 hours.



(2004 Code, § 72.10)  (Ord. 96-180, passed 10-22-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 72.11  PARKING FOR PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING OR SALE PROHIBITED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street
for the purpose of advertising that vehicle for sale, or for the purpose of
advertising for sale or selling merchandise thereon or therein or advertising
any merchandise for sale or a forthcoming event.



   (B)   The Council may, in its discretion, waive the enforcement of
this section for a particular event.



(2004 Code, § 72.11)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.12  PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING.



   (A)   Statutory parking privileges for the physically disabled shall
be strictly observed and enforced. Police officers are authorized to tag
vehicles on either private or public property in violation of those statutory
privileges.



   (B)   Upon completion of the required training, citizen volunteers
may issue citations to persons violating statutory privileges for the
physically disabled. Citizen volunteer training and enforcement shall be done
under the direction of the Chief of Police.



(2004 Code, § 72.12)  (Ord. 95-150, passed 6-12-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 72.13  FIRE LANES; RUSH HOUR TRAFFIC.



   It is unlawful for any person, whether or not physically disabled, to
stop, park or leave standing a motor vehicle:



   (A)   In a signposted fire lane at any time; or



   (B)   In lanes where, and during those hours when, parking is
prohibited to accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon rush
hours.



(2004 Code, § 72.13)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.14  PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; CONSENT REQUIRED.



   It is a misdemeanor to park or abandon a motor vehicle on the property
of another, or upon an area developed as an off-street parking facility,
without the consent of the owner, lessee or person in charge of that property
or facility.



(2004 Code, § 72.14)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.15  DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY; PARKING PROHIBITED.



   (A)   The City Administrator or other designated official may
declare a snow emergency in the city. The emergency shall be declared by 4:00
p.m. and shall take effect later that same evening at 12:00 midnight. The
snow emergency shall continue to be in effect for 24 hours.



   (B)   Notice of the declaration of a snow emergency shall be given
by notifying the local news media; however the notification shall be a
service right only and not a duty on the part of city officials.



   (C)   During a declared snow emergency, no motor vehicle shall be
parked on any street or alleyway in the city between the hours of midnight
and 7:00 a.m., except as otherwise posted.



   (D)   During a declared snow emergency, any police officer is
authorized to have a motor vehicle which is parked in violation of this
section removed at the owners’ expense.



(2004 Code, § 72.15)  (Ord. 09-0536, passed 12-22-2009)




ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT




§ 72.30  PRESUMPTION; OWNER OR LESSEE RESPONSIBILITY.



   As to any vehicle parking in violation of this title when the driver
thereof is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner or lessee of that
vehicle parked the same, or that the driver was acting as the agent of the
owner or lessee.



(2004 Code, § 72.25)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 72.31  VEHICLE REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT.



   (A)   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street
or city owned parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the officer
is hereby authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of that
vehicle to remove the same to a position in compliance with this chapter.



   (B)   When any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
street or city owned parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the
officer is hereby authorized to impound the unlawfully parked vehicle and to
provide for the removal thereof and to remove the same to a convenient garage
or other facility or place of safety; provided that, if any charge shall be
placed against the vehicle for cost of removal or storage, or both, by anyone
called upon to assist therewith, the same shall be paid prior to removal from
that place of storage or safekeeping.



(2004 Code, § 72.26)



CHAPTER 73:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLES



Section




Snowmobiles




   73.01   Definitions



   73.02   Operating restrictions



   73.03   Equipment requirements



   73.04   Emergency operation



   73.05   Owner responsibility




Other Motorized Recreational Vehicles




   73.20   Motorized scooters




Bicycles, Skateboards, Roller Skates and the Like




   73.35   Bicycles



   73.36   Use of bicycles, skateboards, roller skates and the like;
downtown business district



Special Vehicles



   73.45   Intent



   73.46   Definitions



   73.47   Special vehicle use on streets



   73.48   Penalty




SNOWMOBILES




§ 73.01  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having a property interest
in or title to a snowmobile.



   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
or natural terrain steered by skis or runners.



(2004 Code, § 73.01)  (Ord. 92-63, passed 10-27-1992)



§ 73.02  OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.



   (A)   It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile as follows:



      (1)   On a public sidewalk or walkway used for pedestrian
travel, or upon any boulevard;



      (2)   On private property of another without lawful authority
or permission of the occupant or owner;



      (3)   On school grounds, park property, playgrounds,
recreational areas and golf courses, without express permission to do so by
the property authority;



      (4)   Upon any county road or state highway within the city,
or within the designated downtown area as set forth in Ch. 74, Schd. I, of
this code of ordinances;



      (5)   Upon any street, other than the most direct route from
the owner’s or operator’s residence to the nearest departure point from
the city or appropriate snowmobile trail. When no such route exists without
using a county road or state highway, then, in that event, the owner or
operator may operate a snowmobile on the county road or state highway only to
the intersection with a street, taking thereafter the most direct route to
the nearest departure point from the city or appropriate snowmobile trail;



      (6)   During the hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the
day next following, Sunday through Thursday, and the hours between 12:00
midnight and 7:00 a.m. of the day next following, Friday and Saturday;



      (7)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper
under all of the surrounding circumstances or in any instance in excess of 20
mph upon a public street;



      (8)   At a speed greater than 20 mph when within 100 feet of
any lake shore except in channels or when within 100 feet of a fisher, ice
house, skating rink or sliding area, or where the operation would conflict
with the lawful use of property or would endanger other persons or property;



      (9)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner, so as to
endanger the person or property of another or cause injury or damage thereto;



      (10)   To tow any person or thing other than a disabled
snowmobile upon a public street, except through the use of a rigid towbar; or



      (11)   To chase or run over any animal, wild or domestic.



   (B)   For safety purposes, every person leaving a snowmobile in a
public place shall lock the ignition and remove the key.



(2004 Code, § 73.02)  (Ord. 92-63, passed 10-27-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 73.03  EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.



   Pursuant to Minnesota snowmobile safety laws, all snowmobiles operated
on public lands, waters, or roadways must be equipped as follows:



   (A)   Helmets. Operators or riders under 18 years of age must wear
an approved helmet, except when participating in a parade or operating on
land belonging to a parent, grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt. An approved
helmet must meet federal law, which requires the helmet to display the symbol
DOT. DOT is the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to
motor vehicle safety standards. Standard bicycle and hockey helmets are not
legal helmets for snowmobiling.



   (B)   Lights.



      (1)   Headlights and taillights must be on during hours of
darkness.



      (2)   Headlights must be able to reveal people and vehicles
100 feet ahead and aimed so they will not blind an oncoming snowmobiler.



      (3)   Colored lenses on headlights are not lawful when the
snowmobile is operated on roads or road rights-of-way, including crossing
roads and operating in ditches or outside slopes.



      (4)   Red taillights must be visible for 500 feet to the rear
of the snowmobile.



   (C)   Brakes.  Brakes must be able to control movement and to stop
and hold the snowmobile track.



   (D)   Reflector material.



      (1)   Snowmobiles must have at least 16 square inches of
reflector material on each side forward of the handle bars.



      (2)   Any sled, trailer, or other device that is towed by a
snowmobile during hours of darkness must display visible reflector material
on each side and at the rear.



   (E)   Mufflers.



      (1)   Snowmobiles must be equipped with mufflers that are in
good working order and that do not produce sharp popping or cracking sounds
or excessive or unusual noise. After-market exhaust systems may not meet this
requirement and may not be lawful to operate.



      (2)   You may not operate or sell a snowmobile built on or
after 4-1-1975, that exceeds 78 decibels on the A scale at 50 feet, except
under a permit of the DNR or county sheriff.



      (3)   No snowmobile shall be modified by any person in any
manner that shall amplify or otherwise increase total noise level above that
emitted by the snowmobile as originally equipped, regardless of date of
manufacture.



Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 73.04  EMERGENCY OPERATION.



   Notwithstanding any prohibition in this section, a snowmobile may be
operated upon a public street in an emergency during the period of time when,
and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impossible.



(2004 Code, § 73.04)  (Ord. 92-63, passed 10-27-1992)



§ 73.05  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.



   It is unlawful for the owner of any snowmobile to permit its operation
in violation of this subchapter. The party holding title to the snowmobile
shall be conclusively presumed to be the owner unless the snowmobile shall
have been stolen and so reported to a law enforcement agency.



(2004 Code, § 73.05)  (Ord. 92-63, passed 10-27-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



OTHER MOTORIZED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES



§ 73.20  MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.



   Motorized scooters are hereby regulated by M.S. § 169.225, as it may
be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 73.17)  (Ord. passed 11-9-2004; Ord. 13-703, passed 2-12-2013)




BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE




§ 73.35  BICYCLES.



   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   BICYCLE. Every device propelled solely by human power upon which any
person may ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar
devices, and including any device generally recognized as a BICYCLE though
equipped with two front or rear wheels.



(2004 Code, § 73.30)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 73.36  USE OF BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE; DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS DISTRICT.



   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      BICYCLE. A vehicle propelled through pedaling.



      DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT. All sidewalks in the area as set
forth in Ch. 74, Schd. II, of this code of ordinances, excluding alleys.



      ROLLER SKATES or IN-LINE SKATES. A skate with wheels for movement
across a hard surface.



      SKATEBOARD. A hard board or frame with wheels attached for
movement, propelled through leg movement.



   (B)   Unlawful acts. No person shall ride a bicycle, roller skates,
in-line skates or skateboard upon a sidewalk within the downtown business
district; provided, however, that, bicycles, roller skates, in-line skates or
skateboards may be walked or carried on these sidewalks. Nothing herein shall
be construed to prohibit or in any way limit bicycles operated by peace
officers or agents working under their direction while performing official
duties.



(2004 Code, § 73.31)  (Ord. 97-205, passed 9-9-1997)  Penalty, see § 10.99



SPECIAL VEHICLES



§ 73.45  INTENT.



   The city intends to permit the operation of all-terrain vehicles, mini
trucks, utility task vehicles, or golf carts on designated roadways or
portions thereof under the jurisdiction of the city, and under the powers
granted to the city pursuant to M.S. § 169.045. Authorization to operate
these vehicles is by permit only.



(Ord. 15-745, passed 9-8-2015)



§ 73.46  DEFINITIONS.



   Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the
meanings stated:



   SPECIAL VEHICLES.



      (1)   MINI TRUCK is specifically defined by M.S. § 169.011,
Subd. 40a., and means a motor vehicle that has four wheels; is propelled by
an electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic
centimeters or less; has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds; contains
an enclosed cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator; commonly resembles a
pickup truck or van, including a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the
vehicle; and was not originally manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle
safety standards required of motor vehicles in the Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 49, §§ 571.101 to 571.404 and successor requirements. A
mini truck does not include:



         (a)   A neighborhood electric vehicle or a medium-speed
electric vehicle; or



         (b)   A motor vehicle that meets or exceeds the
regulations in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, § 571.500, and
successor requirements.



      (2)   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE is specifically defined by M.S. §
169.045, Subd. 1(3), and means a side-by-side four-wheel-drive off-road
vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine
with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and
has a total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds.



      (3)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE is specifically defined by M.S. §
84.92, Subd. 8, and means a motorized vehicle of not less than three, but not
more than six low pressure or non-pneumatic tires, that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and includes a Class 1
all-terrain vehicle and Class 2 all-terrain vehicle.



   STREETS. Any street, highway, avenue, alley, or other public right of
way within the jurisdiction of the city, including the entire right-of-way.



(Ord. 15-745, passed 9-8-2015)



§ 73.47  SPECIAL VEHICLE USE ON STREETS.



   (A)   Designation of roadway, permit. The city authorizes the
operation of all-terrain vehicles, mini trucks, utility task vehicles and
golf carts on all streets in the city as defined in this subchapter.
Operation of these vehicles is a privilege which may be revoked at any time
if there is evidence that an operator cannot safely operate the vehicle.
Special vehicles shall be authorized to operate in the following manner:



      (1)   Issuance of a documented permit required. The city may
grant and issue a permit document to the owner for a period not to exceed
three years, and which may be renewed. There shall be at the time of filling
out the application a permit fee as set by the City Council, as adopted from
time to time. No permit is valid unless it is present when the special
vehicle is being operated.



      (2)   Issuance of a documented permit not required. The city
grants a permit to the operator of a special vehicle during its use for a
commercial or business purpose. Operating a special vehicle for this limited
purpose does not require a permit application, fee or documented permit.



   (B)   Crossing intersecting highways. The operator, under permit for
an all-terrain vehicle, mini truck, or utility task vehicle may cross any
street or highway intersecting a designated roadway.



   (C)   Application of traffic laws. Every person operating an
all-terrain vehicle, mini truck, or utility task vehicle under permit on
designated streets has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of
any other automobile or passenger vehicle under state or federal law or
regulation except:



      (1)   Where specifically exempted by state law;



      (2)   Those provisions of law or regulation that cannot
reasonably be applied to an all-terrain vehicle, mini truck, or utility task
vehicle; or



      (3)   As otherwise provided in division (D).



   (D)   Required equipment on mini trucks. Notwithstanding M.S. §§
169.48 to 169.68, or any other law, a mini truck may be operated under permit
on designated roadways if it is equipped with;



      (1)   At least two head lamps;



      (2)   At least two tail lamps;



      (3)   Front and rear turn signal lamps;



      (4)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of the
vehicle, and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger's side of the
vehicle or an interior mirror;



      (5)   A windshield;



      (6)   A seat belt for the driver and front passenger;



      (7)   A parking brake; and



      (8)   Roll-over equipment.



   (E)   Required equipment on golf carts. Golf carts shall display a
slow-moving vehicle emblem provided for in M.S. § 169.522, when operated on
designated roadways.



   (F)   Insurance. Proof of insurance meeting state requirements for
motorcycles is required to receive a permit.



   (G)   Times of operation. All-terrain vehicles, utility task
vehicles and golf carts may only be operated on designated roadways from
sunrise to sunset, unless equipped with original equipment headlights,
taillights, and rear-facing brake lights. They shall not be operated in
inclement weather, except during emergency conditions, or when visibility is
impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any time when
there is insufficient visibility to clearly see persons and vehicles on the
roadway at a distance of 500 feet.



   (H)   Special events. In conjunction with a special event permit
issued by the city, any provision within this chapter may be waived and the
City Council may permit the operation of any special vehicle allowed under
state law.



(Ord. 15-745, passed 9-8-2015)



§ 73.48  PENALTY.



   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Notwithstanding violating the provisions of this
chapter, any person convicted of violating parking, traffic or vehicles laws
or regulations in the operation of a vehicle regulated pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to those criminal and/or civil procedures or
penalties which are assigned to such offenses.



(Ord. 15-745, passed 9-8-2015)



CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES



Schedule



   I.   Downtown area; snowmobile prohibited zone



   II.   Downtown business district



Cross-reference:
   Snowmobile operating restrictions, see § 73.02



SCHEDULE I. DOWNTOWN AREA; SNOWMOBILE PROHIBITED ZONE.



   It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile upon any county road or state
highway within the city, or within the designated downtown area, which
includes and is bounded by the streets set forth below.



 


Boundaries of Downtown Area Where Snowmobiles are Prohibited



The rights-of-way of Franklin, Main and Hassan Streets from Second Avenue
North to Fifth Avenue South



 



(2004 Code, Ch. 74, Schd. I)  (Ord. 92-63, passed 10-27-1992; Ord. 15-0742,
passed 6-9-2015)  Penalty, see § 10.99



SCHEDULE II. DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.



   The downtown business district includes the locations set forth below.



 


Downtown Business District Where Riding Bicycles, Roller Skates and the Like
is Restricted




Street or Right-of-Way

 

Side of Street

 

Location



All sidewalks adjacent to Main Street within the city limits
 

West and east sides

 
From the south side of Second Avenue North to the north side of Third Avenue
South, excluding alleys



 



(2004 Code, Ch. 74, Schd. II)  (Ord. 97-205, passed 9-9-1997; Ord. 15-0742,
passed 6-9-2015)  Penalty, see § 10.99



TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS



   Chapter



      90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS



      91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES AND PROPERTY



      92.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION



      93.   ANIMALS



      94.   CEMETERIES



      95.   PUBLIC PARKS



      96.   FIRE PREVENTION



CHAPTER 90:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS



Section



   90.01   Ice and snow on public sidewalks and trails



   90.02   Roadway, sidewalk, curb and gutter; construction



   90.03   Obstructions in streets



   90.04   Street openings and excavations



   90.05   Curb setback



   90.06   Sewer and water lateral installation required



   90.07   Private use of public streets and lots



   90.08   Curb and gutter, street and sidewalk painting or coloring



   90.09   Sidewalk maintenance and repair



   90.10   Violations



§ 90.01  ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND TRAILS.



   (A)   Ice and snow a nuisance. All snow and ice remaining upon
public sidewalks and trails is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance and shall be abated by the owner or tenant of the abutting private
property within 24 hours after the snow or ice has ceased to be deposited.
The owner or tenant shall provide a minimum four feet of clearance on the
sidewalk or trail adjacent to their property.



   (B)   City to remove snow and ice; property owner to be billed. The
city may cause to be removed from all public sidewalks and trails, beginning
24 hours after snow or ice has ceased to fall, all snow or ice which may be
discovered thereon, and it shall keep a record of the cost of that removal
and the private property adjacent to which accumulations were found and
removed. The owner of the property from which the accumulations were removed
shall be invoiced for payment of those services in the same manner of all
city invoices for services.



   (C)   Cost of removal to be assessed. Should the bill for removal
services remain unpaid, the City Administrator shall, upon direction of the
Council and on receipt of the information provided for in division (B) above,
extend the cost of the removal of snow or ice as a special assessment against
the lots or parcel of ground abutting on walks which were cleared, and these
special assessments shall at the time of certifying taxes to the County
Auditor be certified for collection as other special assessments are
certified and collected.



   (D)   Civil suit for cost of removal. The City Administrator shall,
in the alternative, upon direction of the Council, bring suit in a court of
competent jurisdiction to recover from the persons owning land adjacent to
which sidewalks and trails were cleared, as provided in division (B) above,
the cost of the clearing and the cost and disbursement of a civil action
therefor.



   (E)   City Administrator to report sidewalks cleared. The City
Administrator shall present to the Council at its first meeting after snow or
ice has been cleared from the sidewalks as provided in division (B) above the
report of the city thereon, and shall request the Council to determine by
resolution the manner of collection to be used as provided in divisions (C)
or (D) above.



(2004 Code, § 90.01)  (Ord. 12-0701, passed 1-8-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 90.02  ROADWAY, SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER; CONSTRUCTION.



   (A)   Methods of procedure.



      (1)   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for,
construct or reconstruct roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and gutter in
accordance with this section if advance payment is made therefor or
arrangements for payment considered adequate by the city are completed in
advance.



      (2)   With or without petition by the methods set forth in the
Local Improvement Code of Minnesota Statutes, M.S. Ch. 429, as it may from
time to time be amended.



   (B)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor to construct or
reconstruct a sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway or roadway surfacing in any
street or other public property in the city without a permit in writing from
the City Administrator. Application for a permit shall be made on forms
approved and provided by the city and shall sufficiently describe the
contemplated improvements, the contemplated date of beginning of work and the
length of time required to complete the same; provided that, no permit shall
be required for any improvement ordered installed by the Council. All
applications shall be referred by the City Administrator to the City Engineer
and no permit shall be issued until approval has been received from the City
Engineer. All applications shall contain an agreement by the applicant to be
bound by this chapter, and plans and specifications consistent with the
provisions of this chapter and good engineering practices shall also
accompany the application. A permit from the city shall not relieve the
holder from damages to the person or property of another caused by the work.



   (C)   Specifications and standards. All construction and
reconstruction of roadway surfacing, sidewalk and curb and gutter
improvements, including curb cuts, shall be strictly in accordance with
specifications and standards on file in the office of the City Administrator
and open to inspection and copying there. The specifications and standards
may be amended from time to time by the city, but shall be uniformly enforced.



   (D)   Inspection. The City Engineer shall inspect improvements as
deemed necessary or advisable. Any work not done according to the applicable
specifications and standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of
the permit holder. Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the City
Engineer if found to be unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the
specifications and standards, but this shall not place a continuing burden
upon the city to inspect or supervise this type of work.



(2004 Code, § 90.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 90.03  OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.



   (A)   Obstructions. It is a misdemeanor for any person to place,
deposit, display or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions
upon, over, across or under any street without first having obtained a
written permit from the Council, and then only in compliance in all respects
with the terms and conditions of that permit, and taking precautionary
measures for the protection of the public. An electrical cord or device of
any kind is hereby included, but not by way of limitation, within the
definition of an obstruction.



   (B)   Fires. It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain
a fire upon a street.



   (C)   Dumping in streets.



      (1)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or deposit
in any street any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded cloth or
clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or paper
products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or to
empty any water containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon, except
for leaves raked into the gutter line specifically for and in compliance with
a municipal leaf pick up program.



      (2)   It is a violation of this section to haul any material
of this type, inadequately enclosed or covered, thereby permitting the same
to fall upon streets.



      (3)   It is also a violation of this section to place or store
any building materials or waste resulting from building construction or
demolition on any street without first having obtained a written permit from
the Council.



   (D)   Signs and other structures. It is a misdemeanor for any person
to place or maintain a sign, advertisement or other structure in any street
without first having obtained a written permit from the Council. In a
district zoned for commercial or industrial enterprises, special permission
allowing an applicant to erect and maintain signs overhanging the street may
be granted upon terms and conditions as may be set forth in the zoning or
construction provisions in Title XV of this code of ordinances.



   (E)   Placing snow or ice in a roadway or on a sidewalk.



      (1)   It is a misdemeanor for any person not acting under a
specific contract with the city, or without special permission from the City
Administrator, to remove snow or ice from private property and place the same
in any roadway. Snow or ice on driveways, sidewalks and the like shall not be
pushed across traveled portions of roadways and may only be stored on private
property or on rights-of-way adjacent to the private property. The city may
assess the cost of removal of snow or ice against the affected property owner
pursuant to the provisions of § 90.01(C) of this chapter.



      (2)   Where permission is granted by the City Administrator,
the person to whom that permission is granted shall be initially responsible
for payment of all direct or indirect costs of removing the snow or ice from
the street or sidewalk. If not paid, collection shall be by civil action or
assessment against the benefitted property as any other special assessment.



   (F)   Uses of rights-of-way. Purpose: rights-of-way provide many
public benefits, including providing for placement of utilities, roadway
safety and maintenance, and access to and protection of private property.
Therefore, the city regulates utilization of rights-of-way to retain these
and other public benefits of rights-of-way.



      (1)   Permanent and semi-permanent fixtures in rights-of-way
require a franchise from the city. Franchise agreements for permanent or
semi-permanent fixtures must be approved by the City Council. Other uses of
rights-of-way may be regulated by permit or ordinance as the Council sees fit.



      (2)   Permanent and semi-permanent fixtures shall include, but
are not limited to, the following:



         (a)   Fixtures that are affixed to the ground by posts
or foundations.



         (b)   Fixtures not affixed to the ground, but of size,
mass, and/or dimension that may adversely affect the public function of the
right-of-way.



         (c)   Fixtures specifically exempt from the definition
of permanent or semi- permanent fixtures that include:



            1.   Traffic control devices placed by a road
authority, as defined by M.S. § 160.02;



            2.   Boulevard trees and landscaping features
approved by a road authority; and



            3.   Fixtures required to provide municipal
utilities.



      (3)   Permanent and semi-permanent fixtures shall conform to
the following requirements:



         (a)   After placement of a fixture, there shall remain
at least six feet of unobstructed sidewalk in commercial districts and four
feet of unobstructed sidewalk in residential and industrial districts where
sidewalk exists. In all cases where trails exist, ten feet of unobstructed
trail shall remain.



         (b)   Fixtures shall not block any traffic control
device and shall not exceed 30 inches in height within the sight triangle
area, defined as: that triangular area formed by the hypotenuse of
measurements 25 feet each direction from the intersection of corner property
lines. A greater distance may be required as determined by the city.



         (c)   Fixtures shall not pose unreasonable safety
hazards because of the type of materials, objects or property placed within
rights-of-way.



         (d)   Fixtures shall not unreasonably restrict other
necessary or beneficial uses of rights-of-way.



         (e)   Nothing herein shall prohibit:



            1.   The repair of fixtures and related
appurtenances placed within rights-of-way by existing franchises, a road
authority, or municipal utilities.



            2.   The placement of mailboxes approved by the
United States Postal Service.



            3.   The placement of driveways and accesses to
private property otherwise permitted.



      (4)   Maintenance of rights-of-way.



         (a)   Work to maintain properties within rights-of-way
is allowed by the city and franchisees, as governed by § 90.04.



         (b)   Materials, objects or property may be placed in
rights-of-way by the city or under permit from the city in association with
community and special events.



         (c)   Landscape restoration by the city and franchisees
shall consist of restoring disturbed areas within rights-of-way with turf
grass.



      (5)   Other uses of rights-of-way.



         (a)   No use of rights-of-way shall cause a nuisance,
hazard, danger, or sight obstruction for any traffic, vehicles, pedestrians,
or bicyclists using the right-of-way. The city may at its discretion remove,
or order to be removed, at the owner’s expense, any property causing such
nuisance, hazard, danger or sign obstruction and/or require appropriate
warnings be placed.



         (b)   The owner of property placed within rights-of-way
shall be liable for any damage, theft, vandalism, etc. of any fixture, item,
object or property placed within rights-of-way or any damage caused thereby.
The owner of any such property so placed shall hold the city harmless in any
claims therefor.



   (G)   Continuing violation. Each day that any person continues in
violation of this section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.



   (H)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the
provisions of this section, the Council may impose insurance or bonding
conditions thereon as it, considering the projected danger to public or
private property or to persons, deems proper for safeguarding those persons
and property. The insurance or bond shall also protect the city from any
suit, action or cause of action arising by reason of the obstruction.



(2004 Code, § 90.03)  (Ord. 97-208, passed 10-14-1997; Ord. 10-0540, passed
2-22-2010; Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 90.04  STREET OPENINGS AND EXCAVATIONS.



   (A)   Unlawful act. It is a misdemeanor for any person to make any
excavation, opening or tunnel in, over, across or upon a street or other
public property without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Administrator as herein provided, except:



      (1)   A city employee acting within the course and scope of
his or her employment;



      (2)   A contractor acting within the course and scope of a
contract with the city; or



      (3)   A franchisee acting within the course and scope of its
franchise from the city.



   (B)   Application. Application for a permit to make a street
excavation shall describe with reasonable particularity the name and address
of the applicant, the place, purpose and size of the excavation and other
information as may be necessary or desirable to facilitate the investigation
hereinafter provided for, and shall be filed with the City Administrator.



   (C)   Investigation and payment of estimated costs. Upon receipt of
the application, the City Engineer shall cause investigation to be made as he
or she may deem necessary to determine estimated cost of repair, such as
backfilling, compacting, resurfacing and replacement, and the conditions as
to the time of commencement of work, manner of procedure and time limitation
upon the excavation. The foregoing estimated costs shall include permanent
and temporary repairs due to weather or other conditions, and the cost of the
investigation shall be included in the estimate. Payment of the estimated
costs shall be made before the permit is issued.



   (D)   Protection of the city and the public.



      (1)   Non-completion or abandonment. Work shall progress
expeditiously to completion in accordance with any time limitation placed
thereon so as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the public. In the event
that work is not performed in accordance therewith, or shall cease or be
abandoned without due cause, the city may, after six hours’ notice in
writing to the holder of the permit of its intention to do so, correct the
work, fill the excavation and repair the public property, and the cost
thereof shall be paid by the person holding the permit.



      (2)   Insurance. Prior to commencement of the work described
in the application, the applicant shall furnish the city satisfactory
evidence in writing that the applicant will keep in effect public liability 
insurance of not less than $100,000 for any person, $300,000 for any
occurrence and property damage insurance of not less than $25,000, issued by
an insurance company authorized to do business in the state, on which the
city is named as co-insured.



      (3)   Indemnification. Before issuance of a permit, the
applicant shall, in writing, agree to indemnify and hold the city harmless
from any liability for injury or damage arising out of the action of the
applicant in performance of the work, or any expense whatsoever incurred by
the city incident to a claim or action brought or commenced by any person
arising therefrom.



   (E)   Issuance of permit.



      (1)   The City Engineer shall issue the permit after:



         (a)   Completion of the investigation;



         (b)   Determination of all estimated costs as stated
above;



         (c)   Agreement by the applicant to the conditions of
time and manner as stated above;



         (d)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to pay all
actual cost of repairs over and above the estimate; and



         (e)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to be bound
by all of the provisions of this section.



      (2)   No permit shall be issued until the applicant has paid
all of the foregoing together with investigation, inspection and permit fees
as are fixed and determined by ordinance of the Council.



   (F)   Repairs. All temporary and permanent repairs, including
backfilling, compacting and resurfacing, and maintenance thereof at any stage
during restoration, shall be the responsibility of the applicant and shall be
performed in accordance with standards adopted by the city. In the event that
the applicant does not fulfill this responsibility, the work may be
performed, repaired or replaced by the city.



   (G)   Cost adjustment. Within 60 days following completion of the
permanent repairs, the City Engineer shall determine actual costs of repairs,
including cost of investigation, and prepare and furnish to the permit holder
an itemized statement thereof and claim additional payment from, or make
refund (without interest) to, the permit holder, as the case may be.



   (H)   Alternate method of charging. In lieu of the above provisions
relating to cost and cost adjustment for street openings, the city may charge
on the basis of surface square feet removed, excavated cubic feet or a
combination of surface square feet and excavated cubic feet, on an
established unit price uniformly charged.



(2004 Code, § 90.04)  (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 90.05  CURB SETBACK.



   (A)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
hereafter remove, or cause to be removed, any curb from its position abutting
upon the roadway to another position without first making application to the
Council and obtaining a permit therefor.



   (B)   Agreement required.



      (1)   No permit shall be issued until the applicant, and the
abutting landowner if other than the applicant, shall enter into a written
agreement with the city agreeing to pay all costs of constructing and
maintaining the setback area in at least as good condition as the abutting
roadway, and further agreeing to demolish and remove the setback and
reconstruct the area as was at the expense of the landowner, or his or her
heirs or assigns, if the area ever, in the Council’s opinion, becomes a
public hazard.



      (2)   This agreement shall be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder, and shall run with the adjoining land.



   (C)   Signposting. “Angle Parking Only” signs shall be purchased
from the city and erected and maintained at the expense of the adjoining
landowner in all setback areas of this type now in use or hereafter
constructed. It is unlawful for any person to park other than at an angle in
these setback areas, as angle parking is described and allowed in this code
of ordinances.



   (D)   Public rights preserved. Setback parking areas shall be kept
open for public parking, and the abutting landowner shall at no time acquire
any special interest or control of or in these areas.



(2004 Code, § 90.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 90.06  SEWER AND WATER LATERAL INSTALLATION REQUIRED.



   (A)   Requirement of sewer and water laterals. No petition for the
improvement of a street shall be considered by the Council if the petition
contemplates constructing therein any part of a pavement or stabilized base,
or curb and gutter, unless all sewer and water main installations shall have
been made therein, including the installation of service laterals to the
curb, if the area along the street will be served by those utilities
installed in the street.



   (B)   Sewer system service and water main service laterals. No sewer
system shall be hereafter constructed or extended unless service laterals to
platted lots and frontage facing thereon shall be extended simultaneously
with construction of mains.



   (C)   Waiver. The Council may waive the requirements of this section
only if it finds the effects thereof are burdensome and upon notice and
hearing as the Council may deem necessary or proper.



(2004 Code, § 90.06)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 90.07  PRIVATE USE OF PUBLIC STREETS AND LOTS.



   (A)   Authority, permission and procedure. Upon an application duly
made to the City Administrator and reviewed and recommended by the City
Engineer, the Council may, in its discretion, grant special permission
whereby on-street parking or the use of city owned parking lots or ramps or
public sidewalks may be temporarily or permanently prohibited or restricted
for private reasons and purposes (including, but not limited to,
establishment of private or leased parking, loading zones or benches) at
places, on terms and for consideration as the Council may deem just and
equitable. In establishing the amount of the consideration to be paid to the
city, the Council shall consider the amount of space, location thereof, if
any, public inconvenience and hazards to persons or property. Upon complaint
of any aggrieved person at any time and by reason of any specific special
permission so granted, the Council shall, at its next regular meeting after
receipt of the complaint, call a hearing thereon to be held after ten days’
notice in writing to applicant and complainant and published notice at least
ten days prior to the hearing. After the hearing, the Council shall by
resolution decide whether to terminate, continue or redefine the terms of the
permission, and the decision shall be final and binding on all persons
directly or indirectly interested therein; except that, the Council may, on
its own motion, reconsider the same.



   (B)   Public vehicles. Free and reserved on-street parking shall be
limited to city owned and operated vehicles.



   (C)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person to park or
otherwise infringe upon a grant of right under this section, when clearly and
distinctly marked or signposted. It is unlawful for any person not granted
such a right to assert the same, or for any grantee of such a right to exceed
the same under claim thereto.



   (D)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the
provisions of this section, the Council may impose insurance or bonding
conditions thereon as it, considering the projected danger to public or
private property or to persons, deems proper for safeguarding those persons
and property. The insurance or bond shall also protect the city from any
suit, action or cause of action arising by reason thereof.



(2004 Code, § 90.07)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 90.08  CURB AND GUTTER, STREET AND SIDEWALK PAINTING OR COLORING.



   It is unlawful for any person to paint, letter or color any street,
sidewalk or curb and gutter for advertising purposes, or to paint or color
any street, sidewalk or curb and gutter for any purpose, except as the same
may be done by city employees acting within the course or scope of their
employment; provided, however, that, this provision shall not apply to
uniformly coloring concrete or other surfacing, or uniformly painted house
numbers, as that coloring may be approved by the City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 90.08)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 90.09  SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.



   (A)   Primary responsibility. It is the primary responsibility of
the owner of property upon which there is abutting any sidewalk to keep and
maintain that sidewalk in safe and serviceable condition.



   (B)   Construction, reconstruction and repair specifications. All
construction, reconstruction or repair of sidewalks shall be done in strict
accordance with specifications on file in the office of the City
Administrator.



   (C)   Notice; no emergency. Where, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, no emergency exists, notice of the required repair or
reconstruction shall be given to the owner of the abutting property. The
notice shall require completion of the work within 90 days, and shall be
mailed to the owner or owners shown to be owners on the records of the county
officer who mails tax statements.



   (D)   Notice; emergency. Where, in the opinion of the City Engineer,
an emergency exists, notice of the required repair or reconstruction shall be
given to the owner of the abutting property. The notice shall require
completion of the work within ten days, and shall be mailed to the owner or
owners shown to be owners on the records of the county officer who mails tax
statements.



   (E)   Failure of owner to reconstruct or make repairs. If the owner
of the abutting property fails to make repairs or accomplish reconstruction
as herein required, the City Engineer shall report that failure to the
Council and the Council may order the work to be done under its direction and
the cost thereof assessed to the abutting property owner as any other special
assessment.



   (F)   Inspection. The City Engineer shall make inspections as are
necessary to determine that sidewalks are kept in safe and serviceable
condition.



(2004 Code, § 90.09)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 90.10  VIOLATIONS.



   Every person violates a section, division or provision of this chapter
when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when that failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows.



   (A)   Where the specific section, division or provision specifically
makes violation a misdemeanor, the person shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, the person shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where the person
stands convicted of violation of any provision of this chapter, exclusive of
violations relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle,
within the immediate preceding 12-month period for the third or subsequent
time, the person shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.



   (B)   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, the person shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.



(2004 Code, § 90.10)  Penalty, see § 10.99



CHAPTER 91:  ABANDONED VEHICLES AND PROPERTY



Section




Abandoned Vehicles




   91.01   Findings and purpose



   91.02   Definitions



   91.03   Violation to abandon motor vehicle



   91.04   Authority to impound vehicles



   91.05   Sale; waiting periods



   91.06   Notice of taking and sale



   91.07   Right to reclaim



   91.08   Operator’s deficiency claim; consent to sale



   91.09   Disposition by impound lot



   91.10   Disposal authority



   91.11   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA




Unclaimed Property




   91.25   Definition



   91.26   Preliminary notice



   91.27   Notice and sale



   91.28   Disposition of proceeds; claim of owner




Disposal of Excess Property




   91.40   Declaration of surplus; sale authorization



   91.41   Surplus valued under $100



   91.42   Surplus valued over $100



   91.43   Disposition of proceeds




Persons Ineligible to Purchase




   91.55   City employees; exception



   91.56   Prohibited purchases



ABANDONED VEHICLES



§ 91.01  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



   M.S. Ch. 168B, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference. This subchapter is adopted
under the authority of M.S. § 168B.09, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time. If any of these provisions are less stringent than the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 168B or Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended
from time to time, the statute or rule shall take precedence.



(2004 Code, § 91.01)



§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ABANDONED VEHICLE.



      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.01, as it may
be amended from time to time, that:



         (a)   Has remained illegally:



            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any
property owned or controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours
on that property when it is properly posted; or



            2.   On private property for a period of time, as
determined under § 91.04(B) of this chapter, without the consent of the
person in control of the property; and



         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable
condition that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent
with its usual functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage
building.



      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. §
168.10, as it may be amended from time to time, is not considered an
abandoned vehicle;



      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile
graveyards that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S.
§ 161.242, as it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and
maintained in accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not
considered abandoned vehicles;



      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being
held under police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not
considered abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police
hold, writ or court order is in effect.



   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.



   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two
types of impounds: public and non-public.



    IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person who engages in impounding
or storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles. OPERATOR
includes an operator of a public or non-public impound lot, regardless of
whether tow truck service is provided.



   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that:



      (1)   Is three years old or older;



      (2)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things
as broken or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;



      (3)   Is apparently inoperable;



      (4)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and



      (5)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the
approximate value of the scrap in it.



   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. The meaning given “motor vehicle” in M.S.
§ 169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.



   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the
operation of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such things as
tires and used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.



   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.



   NON-PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.



   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit
of government under § 91.10 of this chapter.



   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and
impoundment pursuant to § 91.04(B) of this chapter or M.S. § 168B.035, as
it may be amended from time to time, but is not a junk vehicle or an
abandoned vehicle.



   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special
purpose district and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or town.



   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are
essential to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things
as the motor, drive train and wheels.



(2004 Code, § 91.02)



§ 91.03  VIOLATION TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.



   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private
property, without the consent of the person in control of the property, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.



(2004 Code, § 91.03)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 91.04  AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.



   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Administrator or his or
her designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted
for by the city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk
vehicle if the vehicle is on public property. If the abandoned or junk
vehicle is located on private property, the vehicle shall not be removed or
impounded until the provisions of division (C) below are complied with.



   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Administrator, or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for
by the city, may take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under
M.S. § 168B.035, as it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also
be impounded after it has been left unattended in one of the following public
or private locations for the indicated period of time:



      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 168B.035,
as it may be amended from time to time:



         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace
officer: four hours;



         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic
hazard to the traveling public, as determined by a peace officer:
immediately; or



         (c)   That is a parking facility or other public
property owned or controlled by a unit of government, properly posted: four
hours.



      (2)   On private property, only with the express permission of
the owner of the property, a resident or other person in control of the
premises:



         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential
property: immediately;



         (b)   That is private, non-residential property,
properly posted: immediately;



         (c)   That is private, non-residential property, not
posted: 24 hours; or



         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted:
immediately.



      (3)   If under division (B)(2) above, permission is not
granted, then the city shall not remove and impound any vehicle until the
procedure established in division (B)(2) above have been followed.



   (C)   If the vehicle is on private property, the City Administrator
or his or her designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are
contracted for by the city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or
junk vehicle on private property only with the permission of the owner of the
property, a resident or other person in control of the premises. If
permission is denied, the city may declare the existence of the abandoned or
junk vehicle to be a nuisance and proceed to abate the nuisance as provided
for in §§ 92.015 through 92.021 of this code of ordinances. Once the
abatement procedure has been completed, the city may apply for an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing the removal and impoundment of
the vehicle and, after the order has been granted, the city may then remove
and impound the vehicle.



(2004 Code, § 91.04)



§ 91.05  SALE; WAITING PERIODS.



   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for
disposal or sale under § 91.09 of this chapter 15 days after notice to the
owner, if the vehicle is determined to be:



      (1)   A junk vehicle; except that, it may have a valid,
current registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under
this division (A); or



      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.



   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for
disposal or sale under § 91.09 of this chapter 45 days after notice to the
owner, if the vehicle is determined to be an unauthorized vehicle.



(2004 Code, § 91.05)



§ 91.06  NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.



   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded
vehicle is taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it
into custody shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice
shall:



      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year,
make, model and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the
information can be reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is
being held;



      (2)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to
reclaim the vehicle under § 91.07 of this chapter; and



      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the
appropriate time allowed under § 91.05 of this chapter shall be deemed a
waiver by them of all right, title and interest in the vehicle and contents
and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal or sale of the vehicle
and contents pursuant to § 91.09 of this chapter.



   (B)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by
mail to the registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all
readily identifiable lienholders of record. The Department makes this
information available to impound lot operators for notification purposes. If
it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
address of the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
motor vehicle was towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped
together for convenience and economy.



   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle
remains unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under
division (B) above, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized
vehicle and to all readily identifiable lienholders of record.



(2004 Code, § 91.06)



§ 91.07  RIGHT TO RECLAIM.



   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an
impounded vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or
impound lot operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and
storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or
45 days, as applicable under § 91.05 of this chapter, after the date of the
notice required by § 91.06 of this chapter.



   (B)   Lienholders. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
impair any lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of the state, or the right
of a lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER
is an operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor
vehicle storage facility or an operator of an establishment for the
servicing, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles.



(2004 Code, § 91.07)



§ 91.08  OPERATOR’S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.



   (A)   Deficiency claim. The non-public impound lot operator has a
deficiency claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the
reasonable costs of services provided in the towing, storage and  inspection
of the vehicle, minus the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for
storage costs may not exceed the costs of:



      (1)   Twenty-five days storage for a vehicle described in §
91.05(A) of this chapter; and



      (2)   Fifty-five days storage for a vehicle described in §
91.05(B) of this chapter.



   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim
the impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under §
91.05 of this chapter is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and
consents to the disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer
of title.



(2004 Code, § 91.08)



§ 91.09  DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.



   (A)   Auction or sale.



      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents
taken into custody by the city or any impound lot is not reclaimed under §
91.07 of this chapter, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when
eligible pursuant to §§ 91.06 and 91.07 of this chapter.



      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form
prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title
to dispose of the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to
register the vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of
all liens and claims of ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new
certificate of title, it must receive a motor vehicle safety check.



   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the
city or public impound lots pursuant to division (A) above shall be disposed
of in accordance with § 91.10 of this chapter.



   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale
under this section by the city or public impound lot of an abandoned or
unauthorized motor vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of
towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice
and publication costs incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this
subchapter. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the
owner of the vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days and then shall be
deposited in the treasury of the city.



   (D)   Sale proceeds; non-public impound lots. The operator of a
non-public impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted
under the authority of division (A) above. The operator may retain all
proceeds from sale of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle
that  were not claimed by the owner or the owner’s agent before the sale;
except that, any suspected contraband or other items that likely would be
subject to forfeiture in a criminal trial must be turned over to the
appropriate law enforcement agency.



(2004 Code, § 91.09)



§ 91.10  DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.



   The city may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.



(2004 Code, § 91.10)



§ 91.11  CONTRACTS; REIMBURSEMENT BY MPCA.



   (A)   MPCA review and approval.



      (1)   If the city proposes to enter into a contract with a
person licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a contract pursuant
to § 91.10 of this chapter, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before
it is entered into by the city, to determine whether it conforms to the
MPCA’s plan for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA
rules. A contract that does so conform may be approved by the MPCA and
entered into by the city. Where a contract has been approved, the MPCA may
reimburse the city for the costs incurred under the contract that have not
been reimbursed under § 91.09 of this chapter.



      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in § 91.10 of this
chapter, the MPCA shall not approve any contract that has been entered into
without prior notice to and request for bids from all persons duly licensed
by the MPCA to be a party to a disposal contract pursuant to M.S. § 116.07,
as it may be amended from time to time; does not provide for a full
performance bond; or does not provide for total collection and transportation
of abandoned motor vehicles, except that the MPCA may approve a contract
covering solely collection or transportation of abandoned motor vehicles
where the MPCA determines total collection and transportation to be
impracticable and where all other requirements herein have been met and the
unit of government, after proper notice and request for bids, has not
received any bid for total collection and transportation of abandoned motor
vehicles.



   (B)   The city may perform work. If the city utilizes its own
equipment and personnel pursuant to its authority under § 91.10 of this
chapter, and the use of the equipment and personnel conforms to the MPCA’s
plan for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules, the
city may be reimbursed by the MPCA for reasonable costs incurred which are
not reimbursed under § 91.09 of this chapter.



   (C)   The city required to contract work. The MPCA may demand that
the city contract for the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles and other
scrap metal pursuant to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste disposal. If the
city fails to contract within 180 days of the demand, the MPCA, through the
Department of Administration and on behalf of the city, may contract with any
person duly licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.



(2004 Code, § 91.11)




UNCLAIMED PROPERTY




§ 91.25  DEFINITION.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY. Tangible or intangible property that has lawfully
come into the possession of the city in the course of municipal operations,
remains unclaimed by the owner, has been in the possession of the city for at
least 60 days and has been declared such by resolution of Council.



(2004 Code, § 91.25)  (Ord. 90-18, passed 5-8-1990)



§ 91.26  PRELIMINARY NOTICE.



   (A)   If the City Administrator knows the identity and whereabouts
of the owner, he or she shall serve written notice upon him or her at least
30 days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If the city
acquired possession from a prior holder, the identity and whereabouts of whom
are known by the City Administrator, notice shall also be served upon him or
her.



   (B)   The notice shall describe the property and state that unless
it is claimed and proof of ownership or entitlement to possession is
established, the matter of declaring it unclaimed property will be brought to
the attention of the City Council after the expiration of 30 days from the
date of the notice.



(2004 Code, § 91.26)  (Ord. 90-18, passed 5-8-1990)



§ 91.27  NOTICE AND SALE.



   (A)   Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain property to be
unclaimed property, the City Administrator shall publish a notice thereof
describing the same, together with the names (if known) and addresses (if
known) of prior owners and holders thereof, and including a brief description
of the property. The text of the notice shall also state the time, place and
manner of sale of all this property, except cash negotiables. The notice
shall be published once at least three weeks prior to sale. Sale shall be
made to the highest bidder of public auction or sale conducted in the manner
directed by the Council and its resolution declaring property abandoned and
stated in the notice.



   (B)   In lieu of public auction or sale, any of the unclaimed
property may be appropriated to the use of the city upon approval of the
appropriation by resolution of the Council.



(2004 Code, § 91.27)  (Ord. 90-18, passed 5-8-1990)



§ 91.28  DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS; CLAIM OF OWNER.



   (A)   All proceeds from sales of this type shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city and expenses thereof paid therefrom.



   (B)   The former owner, if he or she makes claim within eight months
from the date of publication of the notice herein provided and upon
application and satisfactory proof of ownership, may be paid the amount of
cash or negotiables or, in the case of property sold, the amount received
therefor, less a pro rata share of the expenses of storage, publication of
notice and sale expenses, but without interest. This payment shall be also
made from the General Fund.



(2004 Code, § 91.28)  (Ord. 90-18, passed 5-8-1990)



DISPOSAL OF EXCESS PROPERTY



§ 91.40  DECLARATION OF SURPLUS; SALE AUTHORIZATION.



   The City Administrator may, from time to time, recommend to the Council
that certain personal property (chattels) owned by the city is no longer
needed for a municipal purpose and should be sold. By action of the Council,
this property shall be declared surplus, the value estimated and the City
Administrator authorized to dispose of that property in the manner stated
herein.



(2004 Code, § 91.40)



§ 91.41  SURPLUS VALUED UNDER $100.



   The City Administrator may sell surplus property with a total value of
less than $100 through negotiated sale. Surplus personal computers greater
than three years old may be donated directly to public schools in the city.



(2004 Code, § 91.41)  (Ord. 04-392, passed 11-23-04)



§ 91.42  SURPLUS VALUED OVER $100.



   (A)   The City Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the
highest bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value over $100.
Notice of the public sale shall be given stating time and place of sale and
generally describing the property to be sold at least ten days prior to the
date of sale by publication once in the official newspaper.



   (B)   The sale shall be to the person submitting the highest bid.



(2004 Code, § 91.42)



§ 91.43  DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.



   All receipts from sales of surplus property under this subchapter shall
be placed in the fund from which it was purchased.



(2004 Code, § 91.43)




PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO PURCHASE




§ 91.55  CITY EMPLOYEES; EXCEPTION.



   No employee of the city who is a member of the administrative staff,
department head, a member of the Council or an advisor serving the city in a
professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property  under this chapter.
Other city employees may be purchasers if they are not directly involved in
the sale, if they are the highest responsible bidder and if at least one
week’s published or posted notice of sale is given.



(2004 Code, § 91.55)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 91.56  PROHIBITED PURCHASES.



   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under this
chapter if that purchase is prohibited by the terms of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 91.56)  Penalty, see § 10.99



CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION



Section




General Provisions




   92.001   Assessable current services



   92.002   Tree diseases




Nuisances




   92.015   Public nuisance



   92.016   Public nuisances affecting health



   92.017   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency



   92.018   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety



   92.019   Nuisance parking and storage



   92.020   Inoperable motor vehicles



   92.021   Building maintenance and appearance



   92.022   Duties of city officers



   92.023   Abatement



   92.024   Recovery of cost




Weeds




   92.035   Short title



   92.036   Jurisdiction



   92.037   Definitions; exclusions



   92.038   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like



   92.039   Filing complaint



   92.040   Notice of violations



   92.041   Appeals



   92.042   Abatement by city



   92.043   Liability




Use of Coal Tar-Based Sealer Products




   92.055   Purpose



   92.056   Definitions



   92.057   Prohibitions



   92.058   Exemption



   92.059   Asphalt-based sealcoat products




Open Burning




   92.070   Definitions



   92.071   Prohibited materials



   92.072   Permit required for open burning



   92.073   Purposes allowed for open burning



   92.074   Permit application for open burning; permit fees



   92.075   Permit process for open burning



   92.076   Permit holder responsibility



   92.077   Revocation of open burning permit



   92.078   Denial of open burning permit



   92.079   Burning ban or air quality alert



   92.080   Rules and laws adopted by reference



 



   92.999   Penalty



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 92.001  ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.



   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any
hazardous building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may
be amended from time to time; installation or repair of water service lines;
street sprinkling, street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust
treatment of streets; repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of
trees and removal of unsound and insect-infected trees from the public
streets or private property; and the operation of a street lighting system.



   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.



      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant
of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the
walk safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt
or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit
thereon. Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.



      (2)   Removal by city. The City Administrator or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks
all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after
any matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall.
The City Administrator or other designated person shall keep a record showing
the cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.



   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or
eliminates public health or safety hazards from private property under the
following provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible
for doing the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or
elimination against each parcel of property affected and annually deliver
that information to the City Administrator.



   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the
city installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under
Ch. 52 of this code of ordinances, the City Administrator shall keep a record
of the total cost of the installation or repair against the property.



   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.



      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city
abutting a public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in
repair and safe for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the
standard specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Administrator.



      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee
shall make inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks
and alleys within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or
vehicles. If it is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private
property is unsafe and in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a
notice to be served, by registered or certified mail or by personal service,
upon the record owner of the property, ordering the owner to have the
sidewalk or alley repaired and made safe within 30 days and stating that if
the owner fails to do so, the city will do so and that the expense thereof
must be paid by the owner, and if unpaid it will be made a special assessment
against the property concerned.



      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired
within 30 days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk shall report the
facts to the City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the
work done by contract in accordance with law. The City Administrator shall
keep a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or
parcel of property.



   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent
to which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for
the cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Administrator, or other designated official, shall
prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Administrator.



   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle,
equipment, object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure
shall be liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may
sustain as a result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the
vehicle, equipment or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating,
driving or moving any vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in
excess of the maximum weight permitted by statute or this code. When the
driver is not the owner of the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but
is operating, driving or moving it with the express or implied permission of
the owner, then the owner and the driver shall be jointly and severally
liable for any such damage. Any person who willfully acts or fails to
exercise due care and by that act damages any public property shall be liable
for the amount thereof, which amount shall be collectable by action or as a
lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City
Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current
service and charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to
which they are attributable under this section. The City Council may then
spread the charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under
the authority of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and
other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.



(2004 Code, § 92.01)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.002  TREE DISEASES.



   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:



      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected
to any degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman)
Moreau or which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus
(Eichh.) or Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);



      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches,
stumps, firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;



      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected
to any degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;



      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion
of the designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to
logs, branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not
been stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide;
and



      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.



   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit
any public nuisance as defined in division (A) above to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or
adjournment thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City
Council shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original
resolution with modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the
doing of the work by day labor or by contract.



   (C)   Record of costs. The City Administrator shall keep a record of
the costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for which
assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the
land, lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to each.



   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the
City Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement
against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this
section. The City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof
against the property involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S.
§ 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection the following
year along with the current taxes.



(2004 Code, § 92.02)  Penalty, see § 92.999



NUISANCES



§ 92.015  PUBLIC NUISANCE.



   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty
intentionally does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:



   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys,
injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any
considerable number of members of the public;



   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage
any public highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public; or



   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
92.016, 92.017 or 92.018 of this chapter, or any other part of this code to
be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided.



(2004 Code, § 92.15)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.016  PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.



   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:



   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or
vegetable matter;



   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;



   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;



   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours
after death;



   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;



   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or
fly-tight or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to
emit foul and disagreeable odors;



   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;



   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon
public or private property;



   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities;



   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and



   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not
operating under local license.



(2004 Code, § 92.16) Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.017  PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.



   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public
morals and decency:



   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except
as otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;



   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those
occupations;



   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous
sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;



   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where
intoxicating liquor is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of
law, and all liquor and other property used for maintaining that place; and



   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of
intoxicating liquor, for promiscuous sexual intercourse or any other immoral
or illegal purpose.



(2004 Code, § 92.17)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.018  PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.



   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:



   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours
after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to
fall;



   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which
prevent people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an
intersection;



   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface
of a sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;



   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as
they may be amended from time to time, which are hereby incorporated by
reference into this code;



   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging
of the exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat,
motor vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any
recreational device, except through a muffler or other device that
effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations;



   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system,
machine or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any person nearby. Operation of any device referred to above
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a
structure or building shall be prima facie evidence of violation of this
section;



   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of
people giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or
repose of another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering
is creating such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons
present, other than the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance
is occurring, to disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after
being ordered by a police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such
premises who has knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable
effort to see that the disturbance is stopped;



   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use
of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under conditions as
are permitted by this code or other applicable law;



   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in
a dangerous manner;



   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or
any use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;



   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over
streets and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;



   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any
building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any
sidewalk;



   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;



   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so
situated or operated on private property as to attract the public;



   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or
other public properties;



   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery,
household appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner
conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank
growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating
fire, health or safety hazards from accumulation;



   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered
or in another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other
person coming on the premises where it is located;



   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or
a public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;



   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other
public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which
may injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing
over the substance;



   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way
or on adjacent private property;



   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause
injury to the person or property of anyone;



   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.



         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause
to be made any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects
their property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited by the
specific restrictions of this section.



         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use
any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.



         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall
create loud or excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any
vehicle.



         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like.
No person shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for the production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and
loudly audible manner as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby. Operation of any such set, instrument,
phonograph, machine or other device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of the
structure or building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment
adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a
structure or building, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.



         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals and the like. No
person shall create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds
adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the
noise unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs
or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs
indicate the presence of such institution.



      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.



         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate
a power lawn mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller,
edger, drill or other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal
equipment is exempt from this provision.



         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove
garbage or refuse in any residential district except between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday.



         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in
or permit construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric,
diesel or gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday.



      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any
person applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license
for any structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project
that may be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact
statement on a form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such
statement and take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving
the license or permit applied for or the zoning change requested.



   (W)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting
exceeding 0.5 footcandles as measured on the property line of the property
where the lighting is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one
footcandle when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.



(2004 Code, § 92.18)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.019  NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.



   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential
purposes in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a
public nuisance because it:



      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;



      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;



      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for
residential parking;



      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where
commercial advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;



      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’
enjoyment of their property and neighborhood; and



      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and
neighborhood patterns.



   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.



      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or
storage of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar
non-permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the
front-yard area of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from
the front property line.



      (2)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or
storage of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials,
including all materials used in connection with a business, outside on
residential property, unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or
fence.



      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the
outside parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it
complies with the following requirements:



         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling
unit may be parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except
as otherwise permitted or required by the city because of non-residential
characteristics of the property. This maximum number does not include
vehicles of occasional guests who do not reside on the property.



         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the
front-yard area must be on a paved or graveled parking or driveway area.



         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored
outside on residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that
property. Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim
the property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the
property.



(2004 Code, § 92.19)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.020  INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.



   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor
vehicle which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for
repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other
vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is
not properly licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. §
168B.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (B)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a
building and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which
does not foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is
permissible.



   (C)   Any motor vehicles described in this section constitute a
hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the community in that
such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding
place for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and well-being of
children and citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if released into
the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the community.



(2004 Code, § 92.20)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.021  BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.



   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other
structures that have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition
and appearance detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be
public nuisances because they:



      (1)   Are unsightly;



      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants’ enjoyment
of their property and neighborhood; and



      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood
patterns.



   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public
nuisance if it does not comply with the following requirements.



      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration,
holes, breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.



      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish
such as paint applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of
the finish. No wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked,
chipped or otherwise deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:



         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or



         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and
similar projections on any one side or surface.



      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures,
may be broken or cracked and no screens may be torn or separated from
moldings.



      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and
have an operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.



      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer
windows and similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from
cracks and defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.



      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that
admit water. All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.



      (7)   Chimneys, antennas, air vents and other similar
projections must be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections
must be secured properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior
roof.



      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good
repair.



(2004 Code, § 92.21) Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.022  DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.



   The Police Department or Sheriff, if the city has at the time no Police
Department, shall enforce the provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace
officer shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human life
and safety, no police officer shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the
owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
officer has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in § 10.20 of this code of
ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 92.22)



§ 92.023  ABATEMENT.



   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date,
place and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City
Council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
given as set forth in this section.



      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall
be served by a peace officer on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.



      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any
City Council hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the
owner of record and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified
or registered mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is
unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the
City Council hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by
posting it on the premises.



      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases
determined by the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any
City Council order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and
Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.



      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice
of any motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S.
§ 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from
time to time.



   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer determines that a public
nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the city, the
officer shall notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the
premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated or abated.
The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the
nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the
notice of violation is not complied with within the time specified, the
officer shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the
City Council may, after notice to the owner or occupant and an opportunity to
be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice of violation
is a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the
time prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by
serving a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for summary
enforcement.



   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of
emergency, where delay in abatement required to complete the notice and
procedure requirements set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a
continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare,
the City Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To
proceed with summary enforcement, the officer shall determine that a public
nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay
in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety
or welfare. The officer shall notify in writing the occupant or owner of the
premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the city’s intention to seek
summary enforcement and the time and place of the City Council meeting to
consider the question of summary enforcement. The City Council shall
determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice to the owner
or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or welfare will be
unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to complete the
procedure set forth in division (A) above, and may order that the nuisance be
immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not immediately
terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary enforcement and
abate the nuisance.



   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition
which poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.



(2004 Code, § 92.23)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.024  RECOVERY OF COST.



   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance
has been abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the
city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator or other
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon, the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of
the City Administrator.



   (B)   Assessment.



      (1)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061,
as it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City
Administrator shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other the charges as
well as other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. §
429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable.



      (2)   The City Council may then spread the charges against the
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year
or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may
determine in each case.



(2004 Code, § 92.24)  Penalty, see § 92.999



WEEDS



§ 92.035  SHORT TITLE.



   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.



(2004 Code, § 92.35) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



§ 92.036  JURISDICTION.



   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.



(2004 Code, § 92.36) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



§ 92.037  DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.



   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or
designated city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the
ordinance violation.



      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of
legal title or a person having control over the property of another, such as
a right-of-way, easement, license or lease.



      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION.



         (a)   Includes, but is not limited to, the following:



            1.   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall
include but not be limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada
Thistle, Corncockle, Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed,
French Weed, Hairy Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle,
Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge, Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy,
Perennial Sowthistle, Poison Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian
Knapweed, Russian Thistle, Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild
Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;



            2.   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or
more and not pruned, sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two
consecutive years;



            3.   Bushes of the species of tall, common or
European barberry, further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural
varieties;



            4.   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees,
bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding
eight inches; and



            5.   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled,
uncultivated growth of annuals and perennial plants.



         (b)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees,
cultivated plants or crops.



   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants
which have been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being
noxious or detrimental plants.



(2004 Code, § 92.37) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



§ 92.038  OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.



   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property and rights-of- way adjacent to
their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of eight inches in
height.



(2004 Code, § 92.38)  (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)  Penalty, see §
92.999



§ 92.039  FILING COMPLAINT.



   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Administrator. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Council member of the city shall file the complaint in
all respects as set out above.



(2004 Code, § 92.39) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



§ 92.040  NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.



   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in
violation of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall
make an inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding
the condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable
belief that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written
notification in the form of a “destruction order” to the property owner
or the person occupying the property as that information is contained within
the records of the City Administrator or any other city agency. The notice
shall be served in writing to the owner of record by first class mail. The
notice shall provide that within seven calendar days following the notice
that the designated violation shall be removed by the property owner or
person occupying the property.



   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are
to be with the City Administrator or designee.



      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Administrator or others is
deemed filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.



(2004 Code, § 92.40) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



§ 92.041  APPEALS.



   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of
objections with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City
Council. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under the subchapter.



   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the
City Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members
in attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the
City Council.



(2004 Code, § 92.41) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



§ 92.042  ABATEMENT BY CITY.



   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“destruction order” within seven regular business days and has not filed
a notice within 48 hours to the City Administrator of an intent to appeal,
the City Council may employ the services of city employees or outside
contractors and remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful
means.



(2004 Code, § 92.42) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



§ 92.043  LIABILITY.



   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting
or destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.



   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs
associated with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs,
attorney’s fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If
the city uses municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per
hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.



   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the
City Administrator and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.



   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a
special assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time.



(2004 Code, § 92.43) (Ord. 15-0741, passed 7-28-2015)



USE OF COAL TAR-BASED SEALER PRODUCTS



§ 92.055  PURPOSE.



   (A)   The city understands that lakes, rivers, streams and other
bodies of water are natural assets which enhance the environmental,
recreational, cultural and economic resources and contribute to the general
health and welfare of the community.



   (B)   The use of sealers on asphalt driveways is a common practice.
However, scientific studies on the use of driveway sealers have demonstrated
a relationship between stormwater runoff and certain health and environmental
concerns.



   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the use of
sealer products within the city, in order to protect, restore and preserve
the quality of its waters.



(2004 Code, § 92.50)  (Ord. 12-0685, passed 7-24-2012)



§ 92.056  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ASPHALT-BASED SEALER. A petroleum-based sealer material that is
commonly used on driveways, parking lots and other surfaces and which does
not contain coal tar.



   CITY. The City of Hutchinson.



   COAL TAR. A byproduct of the process used to refine coal.



   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.



   PAHs (POLYCYCLIC AROMATIC HYDROCARBONS). A group of organic chemicals
formed during the incomplete burning of coal, oil, gas or other organic
substances present in coal tar and believed harmful to humans, fish and other
aquatic life.



   UNDILUTED COAL TAR-BASED SEALER. A sealer material containing coal tar
that has not been mixed with asphalt and which is commonly used on driveways,
parking lots and other surfaces.



(2004 Code, § 92.51)  (Ord. 12-0685, passed 7-24-2012)



§ 92.057  PROHIBITIONS.



   (A)   No person shall apply or allow to be applied any undiluted
coal tar-based sealer to any driveway, parking lot or other surface within
the city.



   (B)   No person shall contract with any commercial sealer product
applicator, residential or commercial developer or any other person for the
application of any undiluted coal tar-based sealer to any driveway, parking
lot or other surface within the city.



   (C)   No commercial sealer product applicator, residential or
commercial developer or other similar individual or organization shall direct
any employee, independent contractor, volunteer or other person to apply any
undiluted coal tar-based sealer to any driveway, parking lot or other surface
within the city.



(2004 Code, § 92.52)  (Ord. 12-0685, passed 7-24-2012)  Penalty, see §
92.999



§ 92.058  EXEMPTION.



   Upon the express written approval from both the city and the MPCA, a
person conducting bona fide research on the effects of undiluted coal
tar-based sealer products or PAHs on the environment shall be exempt from the
prohibitions provided in § 92.057 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 92.53)  (Ord. 12-0685, passed 7-24-2012)



§ 92.059  ASPHALT-BASED SEALCOAT PRODUCTS.



   The provisions of this subchapter shall only apply to use of undiluted
coal tar-based sealer in the city and shall not affect the use of
asphalt-based sealer products within the city.



(2004 Code, § 92.54)  (Ord. 12-0685, passed 7-24-2012)



OPEN BURNING



§ 92.070  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   FIRE CHIEF and CHIEF OFFICERS. The Fire Chief and chief officers of the
Fire Department which provides fire protection services to the city.



   FLAG RETIREMENT SERVICE AND CEREMONY. A dignified and solemn service
and ceremony conducted by a congressionally chartered veterans’
organization for the purpose of properly disposing of worn American flags of
those flags which are otherwise unsuitable to be used as a symbol of the
United States.



   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a
stack, duct or chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein.
Mobile cooking devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood
smokers and propane or natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.



   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than
three feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire
site” using dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or
soot beyond the property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at
all times; for recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social
purposes; extinguished completely before quitting the occasion; and
respecting weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans and air quality so
that nuisance, health or safety hazards will not be created. No more than one
RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on any property at one time.



   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter
circle (measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely
surrounded by non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material,
either of natural rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only
and which area is depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed.
Included are permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are
not RECREATION FIRE SITES, as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall
not be located closer than 25 feet to any structure.



   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard
or charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as
STARTER FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other
clean gas burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an
open burn.



   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto
logs”, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does
not include wood that is green with leaves or needles,  rotten, wet, oil
soaked or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be
used for recreational fires when cut into three-foot lengths.



(2004 Code, § 92.60)  (Ord. 11-0670, passed 7-12-2011)



§ 92.071  PROHIBITED MATERIALS.



   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils,
petro fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically-treated materials or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad
ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper,
insulation, composition board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.



   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of
hazardous waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated
from an industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.



   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of
discarded material resulting from the handling, processing, storage,
preparation, serving or consumption of food.



   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any
leaves or grass clippings.



(2004 Code, § 92.61)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.072  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.



   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the
city without first having obtained an open burn permit; except that, a permit
is not required for any fire which is a recreational fire or which is a part
of a flag retirement service and ceremony, as defined in § 92.070 of this
chapter.



(2004 Code, § 92.62)  (Ord. 11-0670, passed 7-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
92.999



§ 92.073  PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.



   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following
purposes:



      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be
abated by other practical means;



      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;



      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest,
prairie or wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land
and rights-of-way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other
alternative methods are not practical;



      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased
or infected nursery stock, diseased bee hives; and



      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and
wood shakes generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or
other alternative disposal methods are not practical.



   (B)   Fire training permits can only be issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources.



(2004 Code, § 92.63) Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.074  PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.



   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application
on a form prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by
the Fire Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire
Chief and Chief Officers for reviewing and processing those applications.



   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee.
Permit fees shall be in the amount established by ordinance.



(2004 Code, § 92.64)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.075  PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.



   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief or Chief Officers shall schedule a preliminary
site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions and
set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.



(2004 Code, § 92.65)



§ 92.076  PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.



   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be
responsible for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in
effect. Every open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit
holder or his or her competent representative. The open burning site shall
have available appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as
set out in the fire safety plan.



   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the
permit holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be
allowed to smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the
permit holder to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter,
available for inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire
Department, MPCA representative or DNR forest officer.



   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and
implementation of all general conditions, special conditions and the burn
event safety plan as established in the permit issued. The permit holder
shall be responsible for all costs incurred as a result of the burn,
including, but not limited to, fire suppression and administrative fees.



(2004 Code, § 92.66)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.077  REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.



   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of
DNR forest officer, the Fire Chief or chief officers. Reasons for revocation
include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or developing during
the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit being violated
during the  course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions developing
during the course of the burn or a fire smoldering with no flame present.



(2004 Code, § 92.67)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.078  DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.



   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are
not met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief or chief officers, these
officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.



(2004 Code, § 92.68)



§ 92.079  BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.



   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or
DNR has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the MPCA has declared an air quality alert.



(2004 Code, § 92.69)  Penalty, see § 92.999



§ 92.080  RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.



   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as these statutes may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.



(2004 Code, § 92.70)



§ 92.999  PENALTY.



   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code
of ordinances.



   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§ 92.055
through 92.059 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both, plus the costs of prosecution in either case.



   (C)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter, including
maintaining a nuisance after being notified in writing by first class mail of
a violation of any provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and
punished as provided in § 10.99 of this code of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 92.99)  (Ord. 12-0685, passed 7-24-2012)



CHAPTER 93:  ANIMALS



Section




General Provisions




   93.01   Animal waste; removal required



   93.02   Dangerous animals



   93.03   Dangerous animal requirements



   93.04   Statutory regulation of dangerous dogs




Dogs and Cats




   93.15   Definitions



   93.16   Exceptions; police dogs, service animals



   93.17   Animal limits



   93.18   Running at large prohibited



   93.19   License required



   93.20   License issuance; fees; tag required



   93.21   Impoundment; notice; release



   93.22   Seizure by citizen



   93.23   Immobilization of animal



   93.24   Unlawful acts



   93.25   Summary destruction; grounds



   93.26   Rabies control; bites, quarantine, reporting



   93.27   Animals in heat



   93.28   Additional grounds for impoundment




Animals and Fowl




   93.40   Definitions



   93.41   Keeping restrictions



   93.42   Transport restrictions



   93.43   Treatment and housing



   93.44   Trespasses prohibited



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 93.01  ANIMAL WASTE; REMOVAL REQUIRED.



   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      ANIMAL. A dog, cat or other animal.



      OFF LEASH DOG PARK. A public city-designated area where a dog
owner is permitted to allow a dog or dogs to socialize and exercise off
leash, subject to the rules and regulations for such an area.



      OWNER. Any person who harbors, feeds, boards, possesses, keeps or
has custody of an animal.



   (B)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any owner to:



      (1)   Suffer or permit an animal to defecate upon public
property, or the private property of another, without immediately removing
the excrement and disposing of it in a sanitary manner;



      (2)   Suffer or permit an animal to be upon public property,
or the private property of another, unless the animal is in the custody of a
person of suitable age and discretion having in his or her possession
equipment and supplies for excrement removal; or



      (3)   Permit animal excrement to accumulate for a period in
excess of seven days on premises occupied by him or her without removal and
sanitary disposal.



(2004 Code, § 93.01)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 17-777, passed
10-10-2017)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 93.02  DANGEROUS ANIMALS.



   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person’s
animal to inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other
animal whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to
an attack by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or
to an attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home
with criminal intent.



   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer
shall have the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in
accordance with the terms established by this chapter.



   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:



         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any
person on public or private property;



         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under
circumstances which would indicate danger to personal safety;



         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as
an attack on another animal;



         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more
occasions; or



         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the
owner has personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites,
attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.



      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:



         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or
private property;



         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person
upon the streets, sidewalks or any public property in an apparent attitude of
attack; or



         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury
or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.



      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a
securely locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping
and to provide protection for the animal from the elements. A PROPER
ENCLOSURE does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage or
other structure that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or
any house or structure in which windows are open or in which door or window
screens are the only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The
enclosure shall not allow the egress of the animal in any manner without
human assistance. A pen or kennel shall meet the following minimum
specifications:



         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square
feet;



         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet
and be constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall
not exceed two inches, support posts shall be one and one-fourth inch or
larger steel pipe buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete
floor is not provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches
in the ground;



         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be
provided. The cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as
the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two
inches; and



         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be
constructed of the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no
openings in the wire greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with
a device capable of being locked and shall be locked at all times when the
animal is in the pen or kennel.



      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not
purposely excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.



   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal
Control Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal
upon receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when
unprovoked, then bitten, attacked or threatened the safety of a person or a
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(2) above. When an animal is
declared potentially dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one
owner of the potentially dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the
animal is potentially dangerous.



   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer
shall have the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence of the following:



      (1)   The animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division
(C)(1) above; and/or



      (2)   The animal has been declared potentially dangerous and
the animal has then bitten, attacked or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1) above.



   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer,
upon finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order,
as part of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on
a written order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:



      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious
attack, an unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks;
or



      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.



   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined
that an animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal
Control Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing
or in person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or
make orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates,
times, places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this
order by requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.



      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall
obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the
animal from a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already
in custody or the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.



      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to
the dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City
Administrator’s office  shall be admissible for consideration by the
Animal Control Officer without further foundation. After



considering all evidence pertaining to the temperament of the animal, the
City Council shall make an order as it deems proper. The City Council may
order that the Animal Control Officer take the animal into custody for
destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody. If the animal is
ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall immediately make the
animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the owner does not
immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control Officer shall
obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the
animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.



      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found
by to be dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.



   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control
Officer is witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal,
the officer may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring
the attack to an end and prevent further injury to the victim.



   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has
been identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given
in writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership.
The notification shall include the current owner’s name and address, the
relocation address and the name of the new owner, if any.



(2004 Code, § 93.02)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.03  DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the
destruction of an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council
may, as an alternative, order any or all of the following:



      (1)   The owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for
the dangerous animal as specified in § 93.02(C)(3) of this chapter;



      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly
visible warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that
there is a dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51,
as may be amended from time to time;



      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability
insurance in the minimum amount of $300,000;



      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper
enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or
leash (not to exceed six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of
a person 16 years of age or older. The muzzle must be of a design as to
prevent the dog from biting any person or animal, but will not cause injury
to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration;



      (5)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily
identifiable, standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to
its collar at all times as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as it may be amended
from time to time, and shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. §
347.151, as it may be amended from time to time;



      (6)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control
Officer shall be registered with the county in which the city is located
within 14 days after the date the animal was so deemed and provide
satisfactory proof thereof to the Animal Control Officer; and



      (7)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up
to date on rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be
up to date with rabies vaccination.



   (B)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended
from time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any
dangerous animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements
within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is
dangerous. Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and
petition upon the city and filing it with the district court.



   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under division
(B) above may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under division (B) above is fulfilled. An animal not
reclaimed under this section within 14 days may be disposed of as provided
under § 93.02(F) of this chapter, and the owner is liable to the city for
costs incurred in confining and impounding the animal.



   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under § 93.02 of this chapter with the same animal,
the animal must be seized by animal control. The owner may request a hearing
as defined in § 93.02(F) of this chapter. If the owner is found to have
violated the provisions for which the animal was seized, the Animal Control
Officer shall order the animal destroyed in a proper and humane manner and
the owner shall pay the costs of confining the animal. If the person is found
not to have violated the provisions for which the animal was seized, the
owner may reclaim the animal under the provisions of § 93.03(C) of this
chapter. If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal
may be disposed of as provided under § 93.02(F) of this chapter and the
owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred in confining,
impounding and disposing of the animal.



(2004 Code, § 93.03)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.04  STATUTORY REGULATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.



   The Animal Control Officer may regulate dangerous dogs in accordance
with M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.56, as it may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 93.04)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)




DOGS AND CATS




§ 93.15  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ANIMAL. A dog or cat.



   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has caused damage to property or
injury to a person, or which animal, by its actions, exhibits a propensity
for causing imminent danger to persons.



   DOG. Both male and female and includes any animal of the dog kind.



   OWN. To have a property interest in, or to harbor, feed, board, keep or
possess.



   OWNER. A person who owns an animal hereby regulated.



(2004 Code, § 93.15)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.16  EXCEPTIONS; POLICE DOGS, SERVICE ANIMALS.



   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the ownership or
use of seeing-eye dogs by blind persons, or dogs used in police activities of
the city, such as canine corps or tracking dogs used by or with the
permission of the Police Department. If the animal owned is a service animal
which is capable of being properly identified as from a recognized school for
seeing-eye, hearing ear, service or guide animals, and the owner is a blind
or deaf person, or a person with physical or sensory disabilities, then no
license shall be required.



(2004 Code, § 93.16)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.17  ANIMAL LIMITS.



   (A)   Except for a state licensed humane society, no household shall
own, harbor, keep or have custody of a combination of more than seven
animals, no more than three of which may be dogs over six months.



   (B)   These limits shall not apply to households exceeding these
limits at the time of enactment of this chapter; provided that, all animals
in the household are licensed with the Police Department within 90 days of
the enactment of this chapter. No person affected by this section shall be
permitted to acquire any additional cats and/or dogs to replace any cats or
dogs in excess of the maximum limits set in this section.



   (C)   New residents to the city shall have 90 days from the start of
their residency to gain compliance with this section.



   (D)   This section shall not be construed to limit the ability of
apartment managers, landlords, town home associations or other
representatives of property owners to impose greater restrictions.



   (E)   (1)   Households providing rescue or foster care for a
state licensed humane society or recognized rescue program may harbor or have
in custody up to two additional dogs or cats, or a combination not exceeding
two; provided, a permit is obtained through the city.



      (2)   Households that possess animals in excess of the
limitations set forth above for reason of fostering animals for a deployed
armed services member will be exempt from the maximum limits set forth above.
Proof of ownership and deployment will be required. Other exceptions due to
extraordinary circumstances may be approved by the Animal Control Officer on
a case-by-case basis.



(2004 Code, § 93.17)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.18  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.



   It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns, harbors
or keeps a dog or cat to run at large. A person who owns, harbors, or keeps a
dog or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats
on a leash and controlled by a reasonable person shall be permitted in
streets or on public land unless prohibited with signs reading “Dogs and
Cats Prohibited,” except that dogs under the supervision of their owner may
be unrestrained in the area designated as an off leash dog park. Dogs or cats
who are under the control and direction of a responsible person so as to be
effectively restrained by leash or an electronic control device shall be
permitted only on private property at the consent of the property owner or in
a public area designated as such.



(2004 Code, § 93.18)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 17-777, passed
10-10-2017)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 93.19  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for the owner of any animal, six months of age or more,
to fail to obtain a license therefor from the city’s Police Department or a
licensed veterinarian or a state licensed humane society authorized by the
city to issue licenses.



(2004 Code, § 93.19)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.20  LICENSE ISSUANCE; FEES; TAG REQUIRED.



   (A)   License issuance, term and renewal. All animal licenses shall
be issued only upon presentation of a certificate issued by a veterinarian,
licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state, showing  rabies
immunization of the animal for at least the term of the license. All animal
licenses shall expire on December 31. Application for license renewal,
accompanied by a veterinarian’s certificate, shall be made at least 30 days
prior to expiration of the license.



   (B)   Adoption of fees. All fees for the licensing, impounding and
maintenance of animals, including penalties for late application, shall be
contained in the fee schedule adopted by resolution by the City Council and
uniformly enforced. The fees may from time to time be amended by the Council
by ordinance. A copy of the ordinance setting forth currently effective fees
shall be kept on file in the office of the City Administrator and open to
inspection during regular business hours.



   (C)   Tag required. All licensed animals shall wear a collar and
have a tag firmly affixed thereto evidencing a current license. A duplicate
for a lost tag may be issued by the city upon presentation of the receipt
showing the payment of the duplicate license fee. Tags shall not be
transferable, and no refund shall be made on any license fee because of
leaving the city or death of the animal before the expiration of the license.



(2004 Code, § 93.20)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.21  IMPOUNDMENT; NOTICE; RELEASE.



   (A)   Animal pound.



      (1)   Any animal found in the city without a license tag,
running at large or otherwise in violation of this subchapter shall be placed
in the animal pound, and an accurate record of the time of placement shall be
kept on each animal. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may impound
any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at large
and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least
five regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal in which
case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the times specified,
and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it shall
be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:



         (a)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a
release permit as established by ordinance, as that ordinance may be amended
from time to time;



         (b)   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the
pound, per day or any part of day while animal is in the pound; and



         (c)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular
license fee as established by ordinance, as that ordinance may be amended
from time to time, and valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and
distemper shots is required.



      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



         REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. One during which the pound is open
for business to the public for at least four hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m.



      (3)   Impoundment records shall be preserved for at least
three months and shall show:



         (a)   The description of the animal by species, breed,
sex, approximate age and other distinguishing traits;



         (b)   The location at which the animal was seized;



         (c)   The date of seizure;



         (d)   The name and address of the person from whom any
animal three months of age or over was received; and



         (e)   The name and address of the person to whom any
animal three months of age or over was transferred.



      (4)   If unclaimed, the animal shall be humanely destroyed and
the carcass disposed of, unless it is requested by a licensed educational or
scientific institution as authorized by state law. Provided, however, that if
a tag affixed to the animal, or a statement by the animal’s owner after
seizure specifies that the animal should not be used for research, the animal
shall not be made available to any of this type of institution but may be
destroyed after the expiration of the five-day period.



   (B)   Notice of impounding. Upon the impounding of any animal, the
owner shall be notified by the most expedient means.



   (C)   Release from animal pound. Animals shall be released to their
owners, as follows:



      (1)   If the animal is owned by a resident of the city, after
purchase of a license, if unlicensed, and payment of the impounding fee,
maintenance and immunization fee; or



      (2)   If the animal is owned by a person not a resident of the
city, after immunization of the animal for rabies, and payment of the
impounding fee and maintenance.



(2004 Code, § 93.21)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.22  SEIZURE BY CITIZEN.



   It is lawful for any person to seize and impound an animal so found
running at large and the person shall within six hours thereafter notify the
Police Department of the seizure. It shall be the duty of the



Police Department to place the animal in the City Pound. If the name of the
owner of the animal so  seized is known to the person who first takes the
animal into custody, he or she shall inform the Police Department of the name
of the owner, and the address if known.



(2004 Code, § 93.22)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.23  IMMOBILIZATION OF ANIMAL.



   For the purpose of enforcement of this subchapter, any peace officer or
person whose duty is animal control may use a so-called tranquilizer gun or
other instrument for the purpose of immobilizing and catching an animal.



(2004 Code, § 93.23)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.24  UNLAWFUL ACTS.



   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of any animal to:



      (1)   Fail to have the license tag issued by the city firmly
attached to a collar worn at all times by the licensed animal; and/or



      (2)   Interfere with any police officer, or other city
employee, in the performance of his or her duty to enforce this subchapter.



   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, have in
possession, or harbor any dog which by frequent and habitual howling,
yelping, barking or otherwise, produce noise that unreasonably disturbs the
peace, quiet or repose of a person or persons of ordinary sensibility;
provided that, the provisions of this section shall not apply to duly
authorized hospitals or clinics conducted for the treatment of small animals.
The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or caretaker’s
premises.



(2004 Code, § 93.24)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.25  SUMMARY DESTRUCTION; GROUNDS.



   If an animal is diseased, vicious, dangerous, rabid or exposed to
rabies and that animal cannot be impounded after a reasonable effort or
cannot be impounded without serious risk to the person attempting to impound,
the animal may be destroyed in a humane manner.



(2004 Code, § 93.25)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.26  RABIES CONTROL; BITES, QUARANTINE, REPORTING.



   (A)   Rabies control.



      (1)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly
reported to the Chief of Police or designee and shall thereupon be securely
quarantined at the direction of the Chief of Police or designee for a period
of 14 days, and shall not be released from quarantine except by written
permission of the city. In the discretion of the Chief of Police, the
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner or at the veterinary hospital
of his or her choice. If the animal is quarantined on the premises of the
owner, the city shall have access to the animal at any reasonable time for
study and observation of rabies symptoms. In the case of a stray animal or in
the case of an animal whose ownership is not known, the quarantine shall be
at the animal pound or, at the discretion of the Chief of Police, the animal
may be confined in a veterinary hospital designated by him or her.



      (2)   (a)   The owners, upon demand made by the Police
Department or by any other city employee empowered by the Council to enforce
this subchapter, shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a
human, or which is suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for the
purpose of supervised quarantine.



         (b)   The expenses of the quarantine shall be borne by
the owner and the animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of
rabies upon payment of fees set forth in this subchapter and upon compliance
with licensing provisions set forth in this subchapter.



      (3)   When an animal under quarantine and diagnosed as being
rabid or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid dies or is
killed, the city shall immediately send the head of the animal and rabies
data report to the State Health Department for pathological examination and
shall notify all persons concerned of the results of the examination.



      (4)   The city shall issue proclamation and take action when
rabies is suspected or exists as is required by state statutes.



   (B)   Reports of bite cases. It is the duty of every physician, or
other practitioner, to report to the Chief of Police the names and addresses
of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with other
information as will be helpful in rabies control.



   (C)   Responsibility of veterinarians. It is the duty of every
licensed veterinarian to report to the Chief of Police his or her diagnosis
of an animal observed by him or her as a rabies suspect.



(2004 Code, § 93.26)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.27  ANIMALS IN HEAT.



   Except for controlled breeding purposes, every female animal in heat
shall be kept confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary
hospital or boarding kennel, in a manner so that the female animal cannot
come in contact with other animals.



(2004 Code, § 93.27)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.28  ADDITIONAL GROUNDS FOR IMPOUNDMENT.



   Any animal found without adequate food or water, or any animal kept in
a condition endangering the health or safety of the animal, may be impounded
by the city, then held pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 93.28)  (Ord. 90-17, passed 3-13-1990; Ord. 13-0705, passed
4-9-2013)



ANIMALS AND FOWL



§ 93.40  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ANIMALS. Includes farm animals and all other animals, reptiles and
feathered birds or fowl except dogs, cats, gerbils, hamsters and caged
household birds.



   FARM ANIMALS. Cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine, ponies,
ducks, geese, turkeys, chickens, guinea hens, honey bees and mink.



(2004 Code, § 93.40)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)



§ 93.41  KEEPING RESTRICTIONS.



   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal, not in
transit, except:



   (A)   Farm animals kept in that portion of the city zoned for
agricultural purposes;



   (B)   Animals kept in a laboratory for scientific or experimental
purposes;



   (C)   Animals kept in an animal hospital or clinic for treatment by
a licensed veterinarian; or



   (D)   Animals present at events or otherwise kept at the County
Fairgrounds.



(2004 Code, § 93.41)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.42  TRANSPORT RESTRICTIONS.



   It is unlawful for any person to transport animals unless they are:



   (A)   Confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of conveyance;



   (B)   Farm animals being transported in the agricultural portion of
the city; or



   (C)   Restrained by means of bridles, halters, ropes or other means
of individual restraint.



(2004 Code, § 93.42)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.43  TREATMENT AND HOUSING.



   (A)   Treatment. It is unlawful for any person to treat any animal
as herein defined, or any other animal, in a cruel or inhumane manner.



   (B)   Housing. It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal as
herein defined, or any other animal, in any structure infested by rodents,
vermin, flies or insects, or inadequate for protection against the elements.



(2004 Code, § 93.43)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 93.44  TRESPASSES PROHIBITED.



   It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive or ride any animal over
and upon any grass, turf, boulevard, city park, city sidewalk or trail,
cemetery, garden or lot without specific permission therefor from the owner.



(2004 Code, § 93.44)  (Ord. 13-0705, passed 4-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99



CHAPTER 94:  CEMETERIES



Section




General Provisions




   94.01   Purpose; application; control



   94.02   Definitions



   94.03   Certificate of ownership; sole agreement; exceptions;
amendments




Lots; Columbaria




   94.15   Lot ownership; transfer; assignment; city consent required



   94.16   Lot subdivision prohibited



   94.17   Replatting and roadways



   94.18   Lot owner address change; notification required



   94.19   Columbaria



   94.20   Procedures for repurchase of cemetery properties




Rules and Regulations




   94.35   General supervision



   94.36   Interments and disinterments; regulations



   94.37   Payments



   94.38   Work and improvements; city control



   94.39   Lot decoration



   94.40   Visitor conduct; regulations



   94.41   Fees, gratuities and commissions prohibited



   94.42   Protection against loss or damage; disclaimer



   94.43   Cemetery funds



   94.44   Memorials; standards and permits



   94.45   Memorials; construction regulations



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 94.01  PURPOSE; APPLICATION; CONTROL.



   (A)   Oakland Cemetery is owned and operated by the city. The
cemetery operates under the supervision of the Public Works Department, as
directed by the Mayor and City Council. It is the city’s goal to make
Oakland Cemetery a quiet and beautiful cemetery. To secure this effect and
for the mutual protection of cemetery users, the city hereby adopts the rules
and regulations in this chapter. All lots, lot owners, and users of the
cemetery shall be subject to these rules and regulations and amendments or
alterations thereto that shall be adopted by this city from time to time.



   (B)   The City Council shall set rates, charges and fees for
cemetery services.



(2004 Code, § 94.01)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   CEMETERY. A hallowed park for earth interments or above-ground
entombments.



   COLUMBARIA. An above-ground structure of vaults, known as “niches”,
for the entombment of cremains.



   CREMAINS. Cremated human remains.



   GRAVE. A space of ground or structure reserved for interment or
entombment of human remains.



   INTERMENT. The disposition of human remains or cremains by burial or
entombment.



   LOT. Space in the cemetery reserved for the interment or entombment of
human remains. The term includes and applies to one or more adjoining graves.



   MARKER. A memorial of natural stone or other approved material that
does not extend above the surface of the lawn.



   MEMORIAL. A monument or marker.



   MONUMENT. A memorial of natural stone or other approved material that
extends above the surface of the lawn.



(2004 Code, § 94.02)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.03  CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP; SOLE AGREEMENT; EXCEPTIONS; AMENDMENTS.



   (A)   Cemetery deed. The cemetery deed, the rules and regulations in
this chapter and any amendments thereto shall be the sole agreement between
the city and the lot owner. The statement of any sales agent shall in no way
bind the city.



   (B)   Exceptions and modifications. Special cases may arise in which
the literal enforcement of an ordinance may impose unnecessary hardship. The
city, therefore, reserves the right, without notice, to make exceptions,
suspensions or modifications in any of these rules and regulations. These
exceptions or modifications shall in no way be construed as affecting the
general application of these rules and regulations.



   (C)   Amendments. The city may, and it hereby expressly reserves the
right, at any time or times, to adopt new ordinances, or to amend, alter or
repeal any ordinance, or portion thereof.



(2004 Code, § 94.03)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)




LOTS; COLUMBARIA




§ 94.15  LOT OWNERSHIP; TRANSFER; ASSIGNMENT; CITY CONSENT REQUIRED.



   (A)   Descent of cemetery lots. Descent of title and ownership of
lots in case of death shall be subject to M.S. § 525.14.



   (B)   Lot transfers. The only regular and legal proof of title by
descent from a deceased owner is a certified copy of the decree of the proper
probate court assigning the lot of the deceased owner, or his or her interest
in it, to the person claiming it. Whenever practicable, this proof will be
required. If for any reason this proof cannot be obtained, application should
at once be made upon the death of the lot owner to the cemetery to ensure the
records show the lot owner as the proper living person.



   (C)   Consent of city. No transfer or assignment of any lot, or
interest therein, shall be valid until the consent of the city has been
obtained. The city may refuse to consent to a transfer or to an assignment as
long as there is any indebtedness due the city from the record lot owner,
including any fees charged for the transfer or assignment.



(2004 Code, § 94.15)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.16  LOT SUBDIVISION PROHIBITED.



   The subdivision of lots is not allowed, and no one shall be interred in
any lot; except that, they have an interest therein or except by written
consent of all parties interested in the lot and of the city; provided,
however, a relative or any record owner may be buried in the lot as provided
for in these ordinances or in the statutes of the state.



(2004 Code, § 94.16)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 94.17  REPLATTING AND ROADWAYS.



   (A)   Right to replat and use property. The city reserves the right
to resurvey, enlarge, diminish, replat, alter or change all or any part,
portion or subdivision of the property mapped and platted, including the
right to lay out, establish, close, eliminate or change the location of
roads, walks or drives, and to file amended maps or plats, and to use the
same for the erection of buildings, or for any purposes or uses connected
with, incidental to or convenient for the care and preservation of the
cemetery or for any preparation for other cemetery purposes, together with
easements and rights-of-way over or through the premises and the right of
installing, maintaining and operating pipelines, conduits, sprinklers,
drainage, electric or communication lines, or for any other cemetery purpose.



   (B)   No right granted in alleyways. No easement or right of
interment is granted to any lot owner in any road, drive, alley or walk
within the cemetery, but a road, drive, alley or walk may be used as a means
of access to the cemetery or buildings as long as the city devotes it to that
purpose.



(2004 Code, § 94.17)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.18  LOT OWNER ADDRESS CHANGE; NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.



   It shall be the duty of the lot owner to notify the city of any change
in his or her United States Postal Service address. Notice sent to a lot
owner at the last address on file with the cemetery shall be considered
sufficient and proper legal notification.



(2004 Code, § 94.18)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.19  COLUMBARIA.



   (A)   Ownership of burial space in a columbarium shall be considered
the same as ownership of other cemetery property and shall descend according
to state statutes.



   (B)   One or two urns may be entombed in a columbaria niche;
provided, there is adequate space.



   (C)   Purchase of a columbarium niche shall include one bronze front
plaque, regardless of the number of remains entombed, the size, design and
color of which shall be determined by the city.



   (D)   No item shall be affixed to the columbarium, unless herein
provided. One one-and-one-half inch  veteran’s medallion may be affixed on
the lower left face of a columbaria niche. All medallions shall be uniformly
installed on columbaria niches by authorized cemetery personnel only. Other
medallions are not allowed on a columbaria niche.



   (E)   The lot owner is responsible for the maintenance of the
medallion. The city is not responsible for maintaining medallions. If items
are affixed contrary to the memorial permit, they may be removed by the city
at the lot owner’s expense.



   (F)   The city shall provide a central planter near columbaria for
placement of flowers and other ornamentation, at the lot owners’ expense,
as permitted herein.



   (G)   The opening of a sealed niche for a second urn is considered
an interment and is subject to established fees.



(2004 Code, § 94.19)  (Ord. 00-266, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 94.20  PROCEDURES FOR REPURCHASE OF CEMETERY PROPERTIES.



   (A)   Repurchase. When considering repurchase of cemetery property
the city shall offer to willing sellers the greater of one-half of the
current price for properties or the original purchase price of the
properties, whichever is greater.



   (B)   (1)   Certain properties representing a significant value
to the cemetery may be identified.



      (2)   For these properties, the city reserves the right to
offer more to obtain these specifically identified properties or to waive up
to $100 of fees related to the repurchase.



(2004 Code, § 94.20)  (Ord. 99-253, passed 5-11-1999; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)




RULES AND REGULATIONS




§ 94.35  GENERAL SUPERVISION.



   (A)   Admission to cemetery. The city reserves the right to refuse
admission to and supervise the conduct of persons using the cemetery, and to
refuse the use of any of the cemetery facilities by any persons whom cemetery
management may deem objectionable to the best interests of the cemetery.



   (B)   Cemetery management in charge of funeral. All funerals, upon
reaching the cemetery, shall be under the supervision of cemetery management.



   (C)   Casket not to be opened or body touched without consent. The
city reserves the right to refuse permission to anyone to open the casket or
to touch the body without the written authorization of the legal
representative of the deceased or without a court order.



(2004 Code, § 94.35)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.36  INTERMENTS AND DISINTERMENTS; REGULATIONS.



   (A)   Subject to laws. Besides being subject to these rules and
regulations, all interments and disinterments are subject to the ordinances
and statutes of the city, county and state.



   (B)   Time and charges. All interments and disinterments must be
made at the time and in the manner prescribed and are subject to the payment
of related charges. At least 48 hours’ notice prior to interments and at
least one week’s notice prior to any disinterment is required. The city may
refuse to make an interment until a more expedient time if the remains arrive
at the cemetery after 4:00 p.m., or if too many funerals arrive at the same
hour. The city also reserves the right to require additional time in the
event of inclement weather. The city reserves the right to charge an
additional fee if a funeral arrives after 4:00 p.m. or more than one-half
hour after the scheduled time.



   (C)   Authorization to inter and disinter. The city may inter or
open a grave upon receipt of proper written authorization by any lot owner of
record made on forms prescribed by the city or if the lot owner has
previously provided written instructions on file at the cemetery. No
interment or disinterment shall be completed until payment of applicable
charges has been made.



   (D)   Required concrete box or vault. The city requires a concrete
box or vault for full-size casketed interments. Cremains and infant caskets
are exempt from this requirement.



   (E)   Location of interment space. When instructions from the lot
owner regarding an interment space cannot be obtained, are indefinite, or
cannot be followed, the city may open the space as it deems best and proper
so as not to delay the interment.



   (F)   Orders, other than written instructions. The city shall not be
held responsible for any order given by means other than clearly written
instructions, or for any mistake occurring from the want of precise and
proper instructions as to the particular space, size and location in a lot
where interment is desired.



   (G)   Errors may be corrected. The city reserves the right to
correct any errors made making interments or disinterments, or in the
description or transfer of any property, either by cancelling or substituting
the transfer or refunding the amount paid on account of that purchase. In the
event the error shall involve the interment of the remains of any person in
that property, the city reserves the right to disinter and reinter the
remains in property of equal value and similar location, or as otherwise
directed by the lot owner.



   (H)   Delays caused by protests. The city shall in no way be liable
for any delay in the interment or disinterment where a protest to the
interment or disinterment has been made, or where ordinances or permits have
not been complied with. The city may require any protest to be filed in
writing.



   (I)   Not responsible for identification or embalming. The city
shall not be liable for the interment permit nor for verifying the identity
of the person interred; nor shall the city be liable in any way for the
embalming or cremation of the body.



   (J)   No interment or disinterment permitted unless property paid
for. No interment or disinterment shall be permitted in any property not
fully paid for.



   (K)   Interment of more than one body.



      (1)   One casket, or one casket and one cremains, or two
cremains are allowed to be interred in one grave space.



      (2)   A second right of interment may be purchased by the lot
owner for the interment of an infant or cremains in between two blood
relatives.



      (3)   Interment of up to four cremated remains will be allowed
in certain cremation grave spaces of Section 12 and Schmidt’s Addition.



      (4)   Certain reclaimed or repurchased properties throughout
the cemetery may also be allowed multiple interments of cremains, depending
on location, character of surrounding area, size of property, placement of
memorials and other considerations made according to the judgment of cemetery
management.



   (L)   Interment of human remains. The use of the property in the
cemetery is restricted to the interment of human remains only.



   (M)   Disinterment for profit prohibited. Disinterment so the lot or
items contained in the lot may be sold for profit, or disinterment contrary
to written instructions of the lot owner, is forbidden.



   (N)   May obtain different lot. A body may be disinterred from its
original lot and be interred in a different lot in the cemetery; provided,
there has been a property transfer or purchase for that purpose.



   (O)   Care in disinterment. The city shall exercise due care in
making a disinterment, and it shall assume no liability for damage to any
casket or burial vault while making the disinterment.



   (P)   Disinterment during winter prohibited. Disinterments during
the time period of November 16 through April 14 are not allowed.



(2004 Code, § 94.36)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 772, passed
6-22-1988; Ord. 05-0412, passed 8-23-2005; Ord. 13-702, passed 1-22-2013) 
Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 94.37  PAYMENTS.



   Payment of service charges. Charges for cemetery services must be paid
prior to or at the time of the issuance of any order to inter or disinter.
Satisfaction of all indebtedness due the city must be made before interment
or disinterment.



(2004 Code, § 94.37)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.38  WORK AND IMPROVEMENTS; CITY CONTROL.



   (A)   Work to be done by city. Only the city shall perform grading,
landscaping work and improvements of any kind, and all care on lots, trees,
shrubs and herbage of any kind, including trimming, cutting or removal. All
interments and disinterments shall be made only by the city.



   (B)   City directs and may remove improvements. All improvements or
alterations of individual property in the cemetery shall be under the
direction of and be subject to the consent, satisfaction and approval of the
city, and, should improvements be made without the city’s consent, the city
shall have the right to remove, alter or change those improvements at the
expense of the persons making the improvement or the lot owner.



(2004 Code, § 94.38)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.39  LOT DECORATION.



   (A)   Ground planting of flowers is not permitted. The city shall
have authority to remove all floral designs, flowers, weeds, trees, shrubs,
plants or herbage of any kind from the cemetery as soon as, in the judgment
of the city, they become unsightly, dangerous, detrimental or diseased, or
when they do not conform to maintenance standards. The city shall not be
liable for floral pieces, or for baskets or frames in which or to which
floral pieces are attached. The city shall not be liable for lost, misplaced
or broken flower vases. The city shall not be responsible for plants, herbage
or plantings of any kind damaged by the elements, thieves, vandals or by
other causes beyond its control. The city reserves the right to prevent the
removal of any flowers, floral designs, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of
any kind, without its consent.



   (B)   Floral frames, when removed from the lot site, unless called
for within five days by those lawfully entitled to them, may be disposed of
by the city in any manner it sees fit.



   (C)   (1)   The placing of boxes, shells, toys, metal designs,
ornaments, chairs, settees, wood or iron cases and similar articles upon lots
shall not be permitted, and if so placed, the city may remove the same unless
they be wholly contained within an approved flower pot or flower box fitting
over a monument.



In no case shall any decoration or ornamentation be allowed if its design is
deemed to be offensive in nature, include food and beverages or other items
for human consumption, be constructed of glass, contain light-emitting
elements or be in any way designed to move either mechanically or by other
means, including by natural wind. The city may remove any decoration or
ornamentation immediately if it does not comply with this section.



      (2)   No item may be affixed to monuments; except that, a
certain item may be affixed to the face of monuments; provided, it does not
protrude more than one inch beyond the face of the monument and does not
exceed 20 square inches in size, and is maintained by the persons affixing
such items. The city will not maintain items affixed to monuments,



   (D)   Cut flowers may be deposited on graves only on Memorial Day,
except flowers may be in approved vases or holders. Only one flower holder
per lot is allowed.



   (E)   Glass containers are not allowed.



   (F)   Cut flowers and plastic flowers will be removed from the
ground within seven days after Memorial Day.



   (G)   Unsightly flowers and wreaths will be removed at the
discretion of the city.



   (H)   Live plants will be allowed only in approved pots, urns or
holders.



   (I)   Metal flower holders of an approved design are permitted.
Cementing of these flower holders is not allowed. The bottom of the flower
holder is to be a minimum of 18 inches from the ground. The city may remove
non-conforming flower holders.



   (J)   Flower holders shall be placed in line with existing flower
holders.



   (K)   Wreaths are permitted if they are attached to the monument or
placed in approved holders.



   (L)   All bronze cups must be turned down by November 1 to prevent
damage.



   (M)   The city shall not be responsible for plant stands, pots and
vases or other holders damaged due to freezing, snow removal for funerals, or
damage due to the necessary removal of the items.



   (N)   Regulations are posted outside of the office building.



(2004 Code, § 94.39)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 772, passed
6-22-1988; Ord. 11-0673, passed 7-26-2011; Ord. 13-702, passed 1-22-2013)



§ 94.40  VISITOR CONDUCT; REGULATIONS.



   (A)   Must use walks. Persons within the cemetery grounds shall use
only the avenues, walks, alleys and roads.



   (B)   Trespassers on cemetery lots. Only the lot owner and his or
her relatives shall be permitted on cemetery lots. Any other person thereon
shall be considered a trespasser, and the city shall owe no duty to the
trespasser to keep the property, or the memorial thereon, in a reasonably
safe condition.



   (C)   Children. Children shall not be permitted within the cemetery,
or its buildings, unless accompanied by a responsible adult.



   (D)   Flowers and the like. All persons are prohibited from
gathering flowers, either cut or wild, or disturbing trees, shrubbery or
plants, or feeding or disturbing birds or wildlife.



   (E)   Refreshments. No person shall be permitted to have
refreshments within the cemetery except as authorized by the city.



   (F)   Loitering prohibited. Persons shall not be permitted to loiter
in the cemetery.



   (G)   Loud talking. Boisterous or unseemly conduct shall not be
permitted in the cemetery.



   (H)   Littering. Littering at the cemetery is prohibited. All waste
shall be disposed of in appropriate receptacles.



   (I)   Automobiles. Automobiles, including motorcycles and all other
licensed vehicles, shall not be driven through the grounds at speeds greater
than 15 mph, and must always be kept on the right side of the cemetery
roadways. Automobiles are not allowed to park or to come to a full stop in
front of an open grave unless those automobiles are in attendance at the
funeral. Automobiles must stay on roadways and are not allowed on lawn areas.



   (J)   Recreational vehicles. No motorized recreational vehicles,
including but not limited to, motorized scooters, snowmobiles, motorized
carts, all-terrain and off-road vehicles or other similar recreational
vehicles shall be admitted to the cemetery, except those as may be in
attendance at funerals or on business. This section shall not apply to any
vehicle designed specifically for personal mobility.



   (K)   Peddling or soliciting. Peddling of flowers or plants, or
soliciting the sale of any commodity, is prohibited within the cemetery
without the approval of the city. Violation of these rules and regulations
may result in dismissal from cemetery property.



   (L)   Firearms. No firearms shall be permitted within the cemetery,
except on special permit from the city, or at a military or veteran funeral.



   (M)   Notices and advertisements. No signs, notices or
advertisements of any kind shall be allowed in the cemetery unless placed by
the city.



   (N)   Pets. Pets shall not be allowed on the cemetery grounds or in
any of the buildings.



   (O)   Hours. The cemetery grounds shall remain open from 8:00 a.m.
to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, and at other times by special
arrangements.



   (P)   Improprieties. There shall be observance of all proprieties at
the cemetery, whether embraced in these rules and regulations or not.
Improprieties shall not be allowed, and the city shall prevent improper
behaviors and assemblages.



   (Q)   City to enforce rules. Employees are hereby empowered to
enforce all ordinances, and to exclude from the cemetery any person violating
the same. Employees shall have charge of cemetery grounds and buildings and,
at all times, shall supervise and maintain control of all persons at the
cemetery, including the conduct of funerals, traffic, employees, lot owners
and visitors.



(2004 Code, § 94.40)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 05-0412, passed
8-23-2005; Ord. 13-702, passed 1-22-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 94.41  FEES, GRATUITIES AND COMMISSIONS PROHIBITED.



   No person, while employed by the city, shall receive any fee, gratuity
or commission, except from the city either directly or indirectly, under
penalty of dismissal.



(2004 Code, § 94.41)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 94.42  PROTECTION AGAINST LOSS OR DAMAGE; DISCLAIMER.



   (A)   Disclaimer. The city disclaims responsibility for losses or
damages caused by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves,
vandals, strikers, malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable
accidents, invasions, insurrections, riots or order of any military or civil
authority, whether the damage be direct or collateral.



   (B)   City may charge for unusual repairs necessitated by acts of
God and the like. In the event that it becomes necessary to repair or
reconstruct any natural stone or concrete work on any section or lot, or any
portion or portions thereof in the cemetery which has been damaged as herein
described, the city shall give a ten-day written notice of the necessity for
the repair to the lot owner of record. The notice shall be given by
depositing the same in with the United States Postal Service, addressed to
the lot owner of record at his or her address as stated in the records of the
city. In the event the lot owner fails to repair the damage within a
reasonable time, the city may direct that the repairs be made and charge the
expense to the lot owner of record.



(2004 Code, § 94.42)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.43  CEMETERY FUNDS.



   (A)   Cemetery funds shall:



      (1)   Be used for any care and maintenance necessary by
natural growth and ordinary wear including planting, cutting, watering and
care of lawns, trees and shrubs, the cleaning and upkeep of buildings and the
maintenance of utilities, walls, roadways, walks and other improvements of
the cemetery;



      (2)   Not be used for the maintenance, repair or replacement
of any memorials, sod or flowers owned by lot owners that may be caused by
the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots or by order of any military or civil authority, whether
the damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided; except
that, the City Council may direct that certain repairs or maintenance be done
using city funds;



      (3)   Be deposited with others of like character and intent;



      (4)   Not be used to benefit any one individual property, but
rather be used for the good of the cemetery as a whole; except that, the City
Council may approve use of city funds to make repairs or improvements to
specific properties, at its discretion;



      (5)   Be limited to appropriations made by the City Council
for the care of the grounds, buildings and cemetery maintenance; and/or



      (6)   Be used in whatever manner deemed appropriate by the
city for the care, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of all or any
portion of the cemetery improvements, and for other costs necessary to the
preservation of the city’s legal rights.



(2004 Code, § 94.43)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 13-702, passed
1-22-2013)



§ 94.44  MEMORIALS; STANDARDS AND PERMITS.



   (A)   Memorials.



      (1)   Only one central memorial, placed in the center of the
lot, and in line with existing memorials shall be allowed on a lot.



      (2)   Memorials shall be no larger than the maximum size
indicated for each type of memorial, based on the size of the grave and lot,
as prescribed by the city.



      (3)   A permit, obtained prior to or at the time of
installation, is required for each memorial installed at the cemetery.



      (4)   The city reserves the right to correct any errors made
by its employees or by another person or persons regarding the location, size
or placement of a memorial.



      (5)   A written request may be issued to the city for the
placement of unusually shaped or oversized memorials. These memorials,
personal columbaria or private mausoleums may be allowed in areas of the
cemetery where adequate space may be purchased and be subject to provisions
herein.



   (B)   Markers.



      (1)   All markers must be set flush with the ground.



      (2)   Flower vases integrated into flush markers are not
permitted.



      (3)   Markers of bronze or other materials shall be recessed
so as to be flush with other marker materials.



      (4)   Lettering or designs in markers placed on concrete or
stone may protrude no more than one-quarter inch above the concrete or stone.



      (5)   Veterans’ markers approved by the Department of
Veterans’ Affairs may be affixed into the markers; provided, they are
countersunk into the face of the stone or cement wash so the base of the
medallion does not protrude higher than the face of the stone.



      (6)   Any items affixed to markers are the responsibility of
the lot owner; the city is not responsible for the maintenance of these
items. If the items are affixed contrary to the memorial permit, they may be
removed by the city at the lot owner’s cost.



   (C)   Monuments.



      (1)   All monument foundations shall be installed by the same
company or persons supplying the monument, which company or person shall be
responsible for and guarantee the quality and strength of the foundation.



      (2)   Monuments and their foundations shall not encroach into
the space required for interment of a full-sized vault and casket burial,
which is approximately eight feet, six inches by three feet, six inches,
unless other restrictions are necessary based on the size and type of
property.



      (3)   Veterans’ markers approved by the Department of
Veterans’ Affairs may be affixed onto monuments, as provided herein.



   (D)   Designated in-ground cremation areas only. Only one marker or
monument is allowed in designated in-ground cremation areas. Markers and
monuments shall not exceed the permitted size, as identified by the city.



   (E)   Cement washes required. Cement washes will be required on all
memorials in the size specified in the permit, as determined by the city. The
city may also approve washes of natural stone; provided, they shall have less
ongoing maintenance when compared to cement washes.



   (F)   Bronze as part of memorials. Bronze that is imbedded on a
memorial must be recessed so as to be flush with the surrounding stone or
cement; except that, any bronze lettering or design shall protrude no more
than one-quarter inch above the surface of a marker or one inch from the
surface of a monument.



   (G)   Permit required.



      (1)   A permit is required to install memorials. Permits will
be required for each memorial and must be obtained prior to installation. The
city will fix, and from time to time revise, any permit fee.



      (2)   Any memorial installed without first obtaining a permit
may be removed until the permit is obtained. An additional charge for
equipment, labor and storage may be assessed for removal of unpermitted
memorials.



   (H)   Large memorials, areas of the cemetery. Large monuments,
unusually shaped or oversized monuments, personal columbaria or private
mausoleums may be allowed in areas of the cemetery where adequate space may
be purchased. Each request for memorials not complying with these rules and
regulations shall be reviewed independently with regard to required space and
appropriate fit of the memorial and shall be approved only by special permit
issued by the city.



   (I)   Exceptions. Areas set aside as cremation grave spaces and
certain cremation properties in portions of Section 12 and Schmidt’s
Addition will be allowed one monument regardless of the number of cremains
interred, which shall not exceed the maximum size identified in the permit.



(2004 Code, § 94.44) (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 772, passed
6-22-1988; Ord. 99-264, passed 10-12-1999; Ord. 05-0412, passed 8-23-2005;
Ord. 13-702, passed 1-22-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 94.45  MEMORIALS; CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.



   (A)   Persons employed in placing or erecting monuments, or bringing
in materials, shall, as to the city, operate as independent contractors only
under permit from the city and be under the supervision of the city. These
persons are prohibited from attaching ropes to monuments, to trees or to
shrubs. These persons shall not permit material to be on adjoining lots or
block avenues or pathways longer than necessary. These persons shall take
care to do as little injury to the grass, trees and shrubs, and the like, as
possible and are responsible for removing debris and restoring the grounds
and sod to their original condition.



   (B)   Damage done to any property shall be repaired by persons
placing or erecting memorials. Damage that is not repaired in a timely manner
may be repaired by the city, and the cost of the repairs shall be charged to
the persons installing the memorial.



   (C)   No material, machinery or other item used for the construction
of memorials may be brought into the cemetery until required for immediate
use; nor under any circumstances when a funeral is in process. Nor shall any
memorial work be conducted, except during normal cemetery hours. Material may
not be placed on adjoining lots without permission from the city. Work shall
proceed promptly until the erection of the memorial is completed.



   (D)   No work of any kind shall be done while a funeral or interment
is being conducted.



   (E)   The installation of coping, curbing, fencing, hedging,
plantings, grave mounds, borders, enclosures of any kind, brick, cinders,
tile, stone, marble, terra cotta, sand, cement, gravel or wood shall not be
allowed on or around any lot. The city reserves the right to remove the same
if so erected, planted or placed and charge the cost of removal to the lot
owner.



   (F)   The city shall have the authority to reject any permit
application based on the plan or design for any memorial which, on account of
its size, design, inscription, kind or quality of stone is, in the opinion of
the city, unsuited to the lot on which it is to be placed.



   (G)   The city reserves the right to stop all work of any nature
being done at the cemetery whenever, in its opinion, proper preparations
therefor have not been made, when tools and machinery are insufficient or
defective, when work is being executed in a manner so as to threaten life or
property, when persons installing memorials are guilty of misrepresentation,
when any reasonable request on the part of the city is disregarded, when work
is not being executed according to the permit, or when a worker violates
these rules and regulations. Completed work is subject to the approval of the
city.



   (H)   All memorials shall be constructed of natural stone. Should
any memorial become unsightly, dilapidated or dangerous, the city shall have
the right to correct the condition or to remove the same, at the expense of
the lot owner.



   (I)   No memorial shall be removed from the cemetery, except by the
city. Only upon the written order of the lot owner and permission being
subsequently granted by the city shall a memorial be removed.



(2004 Code, § 94.45)  (Ord. 735, passed 4-11-1986; Ord. 772, passed
6-22-1988; Ord. 13-702, passed 1-22-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



CHAPTER 95:  PUBLIC PARKS



Section



   95.01   Traffic and parking



   95.02   Open burning restricted



   95.03   Tobacco-free parks



   95.04   Additional regulations



   95.05   Definitions



§ 95.01  TRAFFIC AND PARKING.



   It is unlawful for any motorized vehicle or equipment to be parked or
operated in any city park or recreational area other than on established
roadways and designated parking areas. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the use or parking of a recreational vehicle in designated camping
areas in West River Park for a period not in excess of two weeks.



(2004 Code, § 95.01)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 95.02  OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful to light or maintain an open fire, including a charcoal
grill, in a park, except in an area designated therefor.



(2004 Code, § 95.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 95.03  TOBACCO-FREE PARKS.



   It is unlawful for any person to smoke or use tobacco products within
the confines of Tartan Park, which includes the terrain park, skate park and
north ball field. This area does not include Veterans Memorial Field and the
parking lot adjacent to VMF Park to the west.



(2004 Code, § 95.03)  (Ord. 12-698, passed 11-27-2012)



§ 95.04  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.



   The Council may, by ordinance, adopt additional restrictions on
traffic, together with rules and regulations for the use of public parks, and
signpost the same upon those parks, playgrounds, recreational areas or
athletic fields where they apply, and it is unlawful for any person to
violate the same when so signposted.



(2004 Code, § 95.04)  (Ord. 12-698, passed 11-27-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 95.05  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   OFF LEASH DOG PARK. A public, city-designated area where a dog owner is
permitted to allow a dog or dogs to socialize and exercise off leash, subject
to the rules and regulations for such an area.



(Ord. 17-777, passed 10-10-2017)



CHAPTER 96:  FIRE PREVENTION



Section



   96.01   Uniform Fire Code adopted; amendments, modifications



   96.02   Storage of flammable and explosive material prohibited



§ 96.01  UNIFORM FIRE CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS.



   (A)   A certain document, one copy of which has been marked as the
official copy and is on file at the City Fire Chief’s office, being marked
and designated as the 2007 Minnesota State Fire Code, or its current
successor, including Appendix Chapters B, C, D, H and I, or their current
successor, is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for the city, for the purpose
of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, except such portions as are modified or
amended. Every provision contained in this code, except as modified or
amended by this section is hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as if fully set forth herein. The appendices referenced in this section are
further identified as:



      (1)   Appendix B, Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings;



      (2)   Appendix C, Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution;



      (3)   Appendix D, Fire Apparatus Access Roads:



         A cul-de-sac shall have the minimum diameter of 120' were
parking is provided.



      (4)   Appendix H, Open Flame and Fuel Storage Prohibited on
Balconies or Patios:



         1.1   Open Flame Prohibited. In any structure containing
three or more dwelling units, no person shall kindle, maintain, or cause any
fire or open flame on any balcony above ground level, or on any ground floor
patio within 15 feet of the structure.



         1.2 Fuel Storage Prohibited. No person shall store or use
any fuel, barbecue, torch, or other similar heating or lighting chemical or
device in the locations designated in Section 1.1.



            Exception: Listed electric or gas-fired barbecue
grills that are permanently mounted and wired or plumbed to the building’s
gas supply or electrical system and that maintain a minimum clearance of 18
inches on all sides, unless listed for lesser clearances, may be installed on
balconies and patios when approved by the fire chief.



      (5)   Appendix I, Special Locking Arrangements for Group I
Occupancies; and



      (6)   State Adopted Amendment.



   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:



      105.6 Required operational permits. Section 105.6 is amended to
read “The code official is authorized to issue operational permits for the
operations set forth in Sections 105.6.1 through 105.6.4.6. Operational
Permits required by the Fire Department”:



         105.6.15 Fireworks



         105.6.17 Flammable and combustible liquids



         105.6.28 LP Gas



      105.6.31 is amended to read “An operational permit is required
for the kindling or maintaining of an open fire or fire on any public street,
alley, road, or other public or private ground” instructions and
stipulations of the permit shall be adhered to.



         105.7.5 Item #3, To install, alter, remove, abandon or
place temporarily out of service or otherwise dispose of a flammable or
combustible liquid tank.



      105.7.8 LP gas



         (See Minnesota State Fire Code Section 101.2.1, 2007
edition), as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the code of the City of Hutchinson for regulating and governing
the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising
from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, material and
devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy
of buildings and premises in the City of Hutchinson and providing for the
issuance of permits for hazardous uses or operations; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such Minnesota State Fire
Code 2007, 2006 edition, published by the International Code Council, on file
in the office of the City of Hutchinson are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section.



   (C)   The following sections are hereby revised:



      Section 101.1 Insert: City of Hutchinson Fire Department



      Section 109.3 Insert: Violations penalties. Persons who shall
violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in
violation of the approved construction documents or direction of the fire
official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$1,000, or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
serviced shall be deemed a separate offense.



      Section 111.4 (Failure to Comply) Insert: Any person who shall
continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be liable to a misdemeanor charge/fine of not less
than $1,000 dollars or more than 90 days by imprisonment.



   (D)   The limits referred to in certain sections of the 2007
Minnesota State Fire Code are hereby established as follows: (limits in which
open burning is prohibited): City of Hutchinson



      307.1 General. A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize
to be kindled or maintained any open burning unless conducted and approved in
accordance with this section.



      307.2 Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire
official in accordance with Section 105.6 prior to kindling a fire for
recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management practices,
prevention or control of disease or pests, recreational permits, or special
circumstances. Application for such approval shall only be presented by and
permits issued to the owner of the land, or their designated agent, upon
which the fire is to be kindled.



         307.2.1 Authorization. Where required by state or local law
or regulations, open burning shall only be permitted with prior approval from
the state or local air and water quality management authority, provided that
all conditions specified in the authorization are followed.



         307.2.2 Is amended to read: Open burning that will be
offensive or objectionable due to smoke or odor emissions when atmospheric
conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous shall be
prohibited. The fire official is authorized to order the extinguishment by
the permit holder or the fire department of open burning when it creates or
adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation. Open burning of debris piles,
leaves, and yard waste and burning in barrels is prohibited.



      307.3 Location. The location for open burning shall not be less
than 50 feet from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the
fire from spreading to within 50 feet of any structure.



         Exceptions:



            1.   Fire in approved containers that are not less
than 15 feet from a structure.



            2.   The minimum required distance from a
structure shall be 25 feet where the pile size is 3 feet or less in a
diameter of 2 feet or less in height.



         307.3.2 Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be
conducted within 25 feet of a structure or combustible material unless the
fire is contained in an approved device or method, such as a fireplace,
charcoal grill, etc. located at least 15 feet from any buildings, fences or
structures.



      307.4 Attendance. Open burning or recreational fires shall be
constantly attended until the fire is extinguished. A minimum of one portable
fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 with a minimum 4-A rating or
other approved onsite fire extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water
barrel, garden hose or water truck, shall be available for immediate
utilization.



      307.5 Open flame-cooking devices. Charcoal burners and other
open-flame cooking devices shall not be operated on combustible balconies or
within 15 feet of combustible construction.



         Exceptions:



            1.   One and two family dwellings.



         307.5.1 Liquefied-petroleum-gas-fueled cooking devices. LP
gas burners having a LP gas container with a water capacity greater than 2.5
pounds LP gas capacity shall not be located on combustible balconies or
within 15 feet of combustible construction.



         Exception:



            1.   One and two family dwellings.



      Chapter 314 - Indoor displays is amended to read:



      COVERED MALLS



      Section 314.5 Main Aisle Width: Main aisles shall be a minimum of
10 feet in width or the minimum required means of egress width, whichever is
greater, and shall be maintained clear from any obstructions.



      Section 314.6 Cross Aisle Width. Cross aisles shall be a minimum
of 15 feet in width or the required means of egress width, whichever is
greater, and shall be maintained clear from any obstructions.



      Section 314.7 Fixtures. Fixtures shall not be located in main
aisles or cross aisles.



      Section 314.8 Sprinkler Obstructions. Roofs or coverings for
kiosks, display booths, concession equipment or similar structures shall not
exceed 4 feet in dimension unless the area beneath the roofs or coverings is
protected by an approved automatic fire-extinguishing system.



      EXHIBIT HALLS AND ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCIES



      Section 314.9 Solid Fuel Burning Appliances. Use of solid fuel
burning appliances for display purposes shall not be allowed in assembly
occupancies other than cooking fuel as described in NFPA 101, 2000 Edition,
and Section 12.7.1.4.



      Solid fuel burning appliances may be defined as any appliance
that uses decomposition of cellulose material, hydrocarbon solids, animal fat
or proteins to produce heat or leaves an ash residue. This would include
plant products or materials, wood, coal, mesquite, etc.



      Section 314.10 Compressed flammable gas cylinders and flammable
or combustible liquids used for display purposes shall be prohibited within
exhibit hall and assembly occupancies.



      Section 314. 11 Fireworks use, sales display or storage shall not
be allowed in assembly occupancies or within 100 feet of the structure or
unless separated by an approved permanent partition such as a building wall.



      Section 314.12 Overcrowding and admittance of persons beyond the
approved capacity of a place of assembly are prohibited. The Fire Official or
their designated agent, upon finding overcrowding conditions or obstructions
in aisles, passageways, or other means of egress, or upon finding a condition
which constitutes a serious menace to life, is authorized to cause the
performance, presentation, spectacle or entertainment to be stopped until
such condition or obstruction is corrected.



      Section 314.13 Standby Personnel. When, in the opinion of the
Fire Official or their designated agent, it is essential for public safety in
a place of assembly or any other place where people congregate, due to the
number of persons, or the nature of the performance, exhibition, display,
contest, or activity, the owner, agent or lessee shall employ one or more
qualified persons, as required and approved, to be on duty at such place.
Such individuals shall be subject to the fire officials orders at all times
when so employed and shall be in uniform and remain in duty during the times
such places are open to the public, or when such activity is being conducted.
Before each performance or the start of such activity, such individuals shall
inspect the required fire appliances provided to see that they are in proper
place and in good working order, and shall keep diligent watch for fires
during the time such place is open to the public or such activity is being
conducted and take prompt measures for extinguishment of fires that may
occur. Such individuals shall not be required or permitted, while on duty, to
perform any other duties than those herein specified.



      Section 503.4 Obstruction of fire apparatus access roads is
amended to add:



      Section 503.4 Parking of motor vehicles in, or otherwise
obstructing fire lanes shall be prohibited at all times. Any vehicle so
parked is the act of a registered owner as well as the act of the person
actually parking the vehicle. For purposes of this section, registered owner
is defined to include motor vehicle leasing agencies and corporate owners. It
shall be a defense to any violator if the registered owner shows that on the
date of the offense, title has been transferred to another. A violation of
this section is a petty misdemeanor as defined by Minnesota Statute 609.02,
Subdivision 4a, and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.



   (E)   Minnesota State Fire Code 2007 shall be amended to read:



      Section 903.4.2 Alarms: An approved sprinkler flow alarm shall be
provided on the exterior of the building in a location to be approved by the
Fire Department. An approved audible sprinkler flow alarm to alert the
occupants shall be provided in the interior of the building in a normally
occupied location.



      Chapter 32 CRYOGENIC FLUIDS is amended to read:



      Section 3204.3.1.1 (limits in which the storage of flammable
cryogenic fluids in stationary containers are prohibited): City of
Hutchinson. The storage and use of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary
containers in any amount is prohibited within the corporate limits of the
city without prior approval. Prior approval requires the submittal of a
proposed storage use and will require technical assistance as specified in
section 3203.6. Containers with cryogenic fluid shall not be located within
dyked areas containing other hazardous materials.



      Chapter 33 EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS is amended to read:



      Section 3304.1.1 The storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited within the corporate limits of the city



      Chapter 34 FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS is amended to read:



      Section 3404.2.9.5.1 The storage of class I and class II liquids
in above ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited within the corporate
limits of the City with exception of those areas zoned I-2 industrial,
agricultural and also other remote areas with quantities as approved by the
fire official.



      Section 3406.2.4.4 (limits in which the storage of Class I and
Class II liquids in aboveground tanks are prohibited): City of Hutchinson.
The storage of class I and class II liquids in above ground tanks is
prohibited within the corporate limits of the city with exception of those
areas zoned I-2 industrial, agricultural and other remote areas with
quantities as approved by the fire official.



      Chapter 38 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES is amended to read:



      Section 3804.2. (Limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated congested
areas): City of Hutchinson. The limits referred to in section 3804.2 storage
of liquid petroleum gas is prohibited within the corporate limits of the city
with exception to those areas zoned I-1 & I-2 Industrial, Agricultural and
also Residential locations and quantities as approved by the fire official.



(2004 Code, § 96.01)  (Ord. 94-102, passed 2-22-1994; Ord. 99-247, passed
3-2-1999; Ord. 03-351, passed 8-12-2003; Ord. 07-0469, passed 8-28-2007)



§ 96.02  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL PROHIBITED.



   No bulk plants for storage of flammable or combustible liquids, or bulk
storage of liquified petroleum gas, not established on the effective date of
this chapter, shall be permitted. No storage of explosives or blasting agents
shall be permitted.



(2004 Code, § 96.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS



   Chapter



      110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS



      111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS



      112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS



      113.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS



      114.   AMUSEMENTS



      115.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE



      116.   LODGING TAX



      117.   PUBLIC SERVICE PROVIDERS



      118.   TATTOOING



      119.   MASSAGE SERVICES



      120.   PAWNBROKERS



      121.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES



      122.   RENTAL UNIT REGISTRATION



      123.   FOOD VENDORS



CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS



Section



   110.01   Definitions



   110.02   License application



   110.03   Procedures; issuance, transfer, termination and the like



   110.04   Fixing license fees



   110.05   Carrying or posting required



   110.06   Property owner responsibility



   110.07   Licensee responsibility



   110.08   Conditional licenses



   110.09   Renewal



   110.10   Insurance requirement



   110.11   Right of denial and rate fixing; hearing



   110.12   Worker’s compensation



§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
title.



   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.



   BOND. A corporate surety document in the form and with the provisions
acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.



   BUSINESS. Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services, or
transaction that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and
regulated, by the terms and conditions of this title.



   LICENSE. A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting him
or her to carry on and transact a business.



   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and
prior to issuance of a license to transact and carry on a business.



   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the city for carrying on
a business.



   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All forms of barter and all manner or means of
furnishing merchandise to persons.



(2004 Code, § 110.01)



§ 110.02  LICENSE APPLICATION.



   All applications shall be made as follows.



   (A)   All applications shall be made at the office of the City
Administrator upon forms that have been furnished by the city for the purpose.



   (B)   Unless otherwise provided for in this title, all license
applications must be subscribed, be sworn to and include information as the
Council deems necessary considering the nature of the business for which
license application is made.



   (C)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in the
application, or any willful omission to state any information called for on
the application form, shall, upon discovery of the falsehood, work an
automatic refusal of license or, if already issued, shall render any license
or permit issued pursuant thereto void and of no effect to protect the
applicant from prosecution for violation of this title, or any part hereof.



   (D)   The City Administrator shall, upon receipt of each application
completed in accordance herewith, forthwith investigate the truth of
statements made therein and the moral character and business reputation of
each applicant for a license to the extent the Administrator deems necessary.
For this investigation, the City Administrator may enlist the aid of the
Chief of Police. The Council shall not consider an application before the
investigation has been completed.



   (E)   Applications for renewal licenses may be made in an
abbreviated form as the Council may, by ordinance, adopt.



(2004 Code, § 110.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 110.03  PROCEDURES; ISSUANCE, TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND THE LIKE.



   (A)   Granting. The Council may grant any application for the period
of the remainder of the then current calendar year or for the entire ensuing
license year. Failure to pay any portion of a fee when due shall be cause for
revocation. No license fee shall be refundable upon revocation or voluntarily
ceasing to carry on the licensed activity. All applications, including
proposed license periods, must be consistent with this title.



   (B)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator
shall forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by
the Council, payment of the appropriate license fee and approval of the bond
or insurance as to form and surety or carrier, if required. All licenses
shall be on a calendar year basis unless otherwise specified herein as to
particular businesses. Except as to licenses which are specifically citywide,
licenses shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein
described.



   (C)   Transfer. No license shall be transferable between persons.
Any change in individual ownership, incorporation or substitution of partners
is a transfer. No license shall be transferable to a different location
without prior consent of the Council and upon payment of the fee for a
duplicate license. It is unlawful to make any transfer in violation of this
division (C).



   (D)   Termination. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.



   (E)   Refusal and revocation. The Council may, for any reasonable
cause, refuse to grant any application or revoke any license. Before
revocation of any license, the Council shall give notice to the licensee and
grant the licensee opportunity to be heard. Notice to be given and the exact
time of hearing shall be stated in the ordinance calling for the hearing.
Grounds for revocation may be, but are not limited to, any of the following:



      (1)   The licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon
licensed premises;



      (2)   The licensee had knowledge of illegal acts of this type,
but failed to report the same to police;



      (3)   The licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with
police in investigating alleged illegal acts of this type; or



      (4)   The activities of the licensee created a serious danger
to public health, safety or welfare.



   (F)   Duplicate license. Duplicates of all original licenses may be
issued by the City Administrator, without action by the Council, upon
licensee’s affidavit that the original has been lost and upon payment of a
fee in an amount adopted by ordinance of the Council for issuance of the
duplicate. All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked “Duplicate”.



(2004 Code, § 110.03)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 110.04  FIXING LICENSE FEES.



   Except as otherwise herein provided, all fees for licenses, duplicate
and renewal fees, late fee penalties and investigation of applicants under
this title shall be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by ordinance
and uniformly enforced. These license fees may, from time to time, be amended
by the Council by ordinance. A copy of the ordinance setting forth currently
effective license fees shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator, and open to inspection during regular business hours. For the
purpose of fixing the fees, the Council may subdivide and categorize licenses
under a specific license requirement; provided that, any named subdivision or
categorization shall be included in the ordinance authorized by this section.



(2004 Code, § 110.04)



§ 110.05  CARRYING OR POSTING REQUIRED.



   (A)   All solicitors shall, at all times when so engaged, carry
their licenses on their persons.



   (B)   All other licensees shall post their licenses in their places
of business near the licensed activity; provided, however, that, in the case
of machine or other device licensing, the city may provide a sticker for the
current license year which shall be affixed to each machine or device
requiring the sticker.



   (C)   All licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by any
officer or citizen.



(2004 Code, § 110.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 110.06  PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.



   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property
owned or controlled by him or her to be used, without a license, for any
business for which a license is required by this title.



(2004 Code, § 110.06)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 110.07  LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY.



   The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, while engaged in
performance of their duties for their principal or employer under that
license, except as to criminal liability therefor, shall be deemed the
conduct of the licensee.



(2004 Code, § 110.07)



§ 110.08  CONDITIONAL LICENSES.



   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may,
upon a finding of the necessity therefor, place conditions and restrictions
upon a license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.



(2004 Code, § 110.08)



§ 110.09  RENEWAL.



   Applications for renewal of an existing license shall be made at least
30 days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and shall contain
information as is required by the city. This time requirement may be waived
by the Council for good and sufficient cause.



(2004 Code, § 110.09)



§ 110.10  INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.



   (A)   Whenever insurance is required by a section of this title,
after approval by the Council, but before the license shall be issued, the
applicant shall file with the City Administrator a policy or certificate of
public liability insurance showing:



      (1)   The limits are at least as high as required;



      (2)   Coverage is effective for at least the license term
approved; and



      (3)   The insurance will not be cancelled or terminated
without 30 days’ written notice served upon the City Administrator.



   (B)   Cancellation or termination of the above coverage shall be
grounds for license revocation.



(2004 Code, § 110.10)



§ 110.11  RIGHT OF DENIAL AND RATE FIXING; HEARING.



   (A)   Right to deny. The Council reserves to itself the right to
deny any application for a license to operate any business licensed or
regulated under this title where that business involves service to the
public, rates charged for service, use of public streets or other public
property by the applicant or the public, or the public health, safety and
convenience. The Council may also consider the location of the business in
making its determination; provided, however, that, before making its
determination, the Council shall hold a public hearing thereon pursuant to
notice to interested parties and the public as it may deem necessary or
proper in action calling for the hearing.



   (B)   Rates. Where, under specific provisions of this title, the
Council has reserved to itself the right to fix or approve fees, rates or
charges of a licensed or regulated business, those rates shall be uniform for
each category or class of service, and no licensee or proprietor of a
regulated business shall claim or demand payment in excess thereof.



   (C)   Hearing. Any applicant or licensee under this title who
challenges denial of a license or rates fixed or approved by the Council
shall have a right to a hearing before the Council upon written request
therefor. Notice of time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be given to
those persons and by those means as the Council may determine in calling the
hearing.



(2004 Code, § 110.11)



§ 110.12  WORKER’S COMPENSATION.



   (A)   Licensees. No license to operate a business shall be issued by
the city until the applicant presents acceptable evidence of compliance with
the worker’s compensation insurance coverage requirement of state statutes
by providing the name of the insurance company, the policy number and the
dates of coverage or the permit to self-insure.



   (B)   Contractors. The city shall not enter into any contract for
doing public work before receiving from all other contracting parties
acceptable evidence of compliance with the worker’s compensation insurance
coverage requirement of state statutes.



   (C)   City officers. All officers of the city elected or appointed
for a regular term of office or to complete the unexpired portion of any
regular term shall be included in the definition of “employee” as defined
in state statutes relating to coverage for purposes of worker’s
compensation entitlement.



(2004 Code, § 110.12)



CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS



Section



   111.01   Definitions



   111.02   License required



   111.03   Exemptions



   111.04   Application



   111.05   Religious and charitable organizations; exemption



   111.06   Investigation and issuance



   111.07   Loud noises and speaking devices



   111.08   Use of streets



   111.09   Exhibition of license



   111.10   Duty of police to enforce



   111.11   Records



   111.12   Revocation of license



   111.13   Reapplication



   111.14   Expiration of license



§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.



   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all
terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of
this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, who goes
from house to house, from place to place or from street to street, conveying
or transporting goods, wares or merchandise or offering or exposing the same
for sale or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers. It does not
include vendors who distribute products to regular customers on regular
established routes.



   SOLICITOR. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, who goes
from house to house, from place to place, or from street to street, in person
or by telephone, soliciting or taking or attempting to take orders for sale
of goods, wares or merchandise, including magazines, books, periodicals or
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for
service to be performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such order or whether
or not he or she is collecting advance payments on such orders. Such
definition includes any person who, for himself or herself, or for another
person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
motor vehicle, trailer, structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or other place within the city for the primary
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery. It does
not include vendors who distribute products to or take orders from regular
customers on regular established routes or display products or take orders at
invited in-home demonstrations.



   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
agent, consignee or employee whether a resident of the city or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, lodging
house, apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the city,
for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either
privately or at public auction. Such definition does not include any person
who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery only.
The sale of farm or garden products, whether or not sold by the person
producing the same, shall be included within the definition set forth above;
provided, however, that, the City Council may exempt such farm and garden
products from the chapter as are sold at a duly organized and authorized
farmer’s market.



(2004 Code, § 111.01)  (Ord. 89-14, passed 6-1-1990; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient
merchant to engage in any business within the city without first obtaining a
license therefor from the city. It is unlawful for any solicitor to engage in
any business within the city without first registering his or her business
information with the city. Business information shall include:



      (1)   Name of owner/agent of company performing solicitation;



      (2)   Company address;



      (3)   Contact phone number of owner/agent;



      (4)   List of all employee names who will be performing
solicitation on behalf of company;



      (5)   Estimated time frame when solicitation will occur;



      (6)   Products being solicited; and



      (7)   Other cities solicitation has occurred.



   (B)   Where licensing is referenced throughout the remainder of this
chapter, it shall refer to peddlers and transient merchants only.



(2004 Code, § 111.02)  (Ord. 89-14, passed 6-1-1990; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003; Ord. 13-718, passed 9-24-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 111.03  EXEMPTIONS.



   This chapter does not include the acts of persons selling personal
property at wholesale to dealers in such articles, nor to newsboys, nor to
the acts of merchants or their employees in delivery goods in the regular
course of business. Nor shall the provisions of this chapter be applied to
the acts of persons selling or displaying personal property, goods or wares
to merchants or their employees for use in the merchant’s business or sale
upon consignment by the merchant. Additionally, multi-vendor events that are
held at the Hutchinson Event Center and/or McLeod County Fairgrounds and are
sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce and/or the Hutchinson Mall are exempt.
Nothing contained in this chapter prohibits any sale required by statute or
by order of any court, or prevents any person conducting a bona



fide auction sale pursuant to law.



(2004 Code, § 111.03)  (Ord. 89-14, passed 6-1-1990; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.04  APPLICATION.



   (A)   Applicants for a license under this chapter shall file with
the City Administrator a sworn application in writing on a form to be
furnished by the City Administrator.



   (B)   The application shall give the following information:



      (1)   Name and physical description of applicant;



      (2)   Complete permanent home and local address of the
applicant and, in the case of transient merchants, the local address from
which proposed sales will be made;



      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and
the goods to be sold;



      (4)   The name and address of the employer, principal or
supplier of the applicant, together with credentials therefrom establishing
the exact relationship;



      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is
desired;



      (6)   The source of supply of the goods or property proposed
to be sold, or orders taken for the sale thereof, where such goods or
products are located at the time said application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery;



      (7)   The names of at least two property owners of the county
who will certify as to the applicant’s good character and business
respectability or, in lieu of the names of references, such other available
evidence as to the good character and business responsibility of the
applicant as will enable an investigator to properly evaluate such character
and business responsibility;



      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any city code provision,
other than traffic violations, the nature of the offense and the punishment
or penalty assessed therefor;



      (9)   The last municipalities, not to exceed three, where
applicant carried on business immediately preceding date of application and
the addresses from which such business was conducted in those municipalities;
and



      (10)   At the time of filing the application, a
license/investigation fee adopted by ordinance of the Council shall be paid
to the City Administrator to cover the cost of investigation of the facts
stated therein.



(2004 Code, § 111.04)  (Ord. 89-14, passed 6-1-1990; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.05  RELIGIOUS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS; EXEMPTION.



   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any organization,
society, association or corporation desiring to solicit or have solicited in
its name money, donations of money or property or financial assistance of any
kind or desiring to sell or distribute any item of literature or merchandise
for which a fee is charged or solicited from persons other than members of
such organizations upon the streets, in office or business buildings, by
house to house canvass or in public places for a charitable, religious,
patriotic or philanthropic purpose.



(2004 Code, § 111.05)  (Ord. 89-14, passed 6-1-1990; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.06  INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.



   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the
Chief of Police, who shall immediately institute such investigation of the
applicant’s business and moral character as he or she deems necessary for
the protection of the public good and shall endorse the application in the
manner prescribed in this chapter within seven days after it has been filed
by the applicant with the City Administrator.



   (B)   As a result of such investigation, the Chief of Police shall
endorse his or her approval or disapproval on such application and his or her
reasons for the same and return the application to the City Administrator,
who shall place the license before the Council for its consideration for
rejection or issuance within 30 days from the date of the application.



   (C)   If the Council shall reject such application, the City
Administrator shall notify the applicant that his or her application is
disapproved and that no license will be issued. If the Council shall approve
such application, the City Administrator shall deliver to the applicant his
or her license. Such license shall contain the signature of the issuing
officer and shall show the name and address of the licensee, the class of
license issued and the kinds of goods to be sold thereunder, the date of
issuance and the length of time, not to exceed one year from the date of
issuance that the same shall be operative, as well as the license number.
Each peddler, solicitor or transient merchant must secure a personal license.
No license shall be used at any time by any person other than the one to whom
it is issued. The City Administrator shall keep a permanent record of all
licenses issued.



(2004 Code, § 111.06)  (Ord. 89-14, passed 6-1-1990; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.07  LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.



   No licensee, nor any person in his or her behalf, shall shout, cry out,
blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound amplifying device upon any of the
streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the city or upon private
premises where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to
be capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.



(2004 Code, § 111.07)  (Ord. 89-14, passed 6-1-1990; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 111.08  USE OF STREETS.



   (A)   No licensee shall have any exclusive right to any location in
the public streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location in the
public streets or public right-of-way, nor shall any be permitted to operate
in a congested area where such operation might impede or inconvenience the
public use of such streets.



   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a police
officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether
the area is congested and the public impeded or inconvenienced.



(2004 Code, § 111.08)  (Ord. 92-52, passed 2-25-1992; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 111.09  EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.



   Licensees are required to exhibit their license at the request of any
citizen.



(2004 Code, § 111.09)  (Ord. 92-52, passed 2-25-1992; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.10  DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.



   It shall be the duty of the police to require any person seen peddling,
soliciting or canvassing and who is not known by such officer to have
obtained a license hereunder to produce his or her license and to enforce the
provisions of this chapter against any person found to be violating the same.



(2004 Code, § 111.10)  (Ord. 92-52, passed 2-25-1992; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.11  RECORDS.



   The Chief of Police shall report to the City Administrator all
convictions for violation of this chapter and the City Administrator shall
maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of violation
therein.



(2004 Code, § 111.11)  (Ord. 92-52, passed 2-25-1992; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.12  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.



   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter  may be
revoked by the Council after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:



      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement
contained in the application for license;



      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement made in
the course of carrying on his or her business as solicitor, canvasser,
peddler, transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor;



      (3)   Any violation of this section;



      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor; and



      (5)   Conducting the business of peddler, canvasser,
solicitor, transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor, as the
case may be, in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a
breach of peace or to constitute a menace to health, safety or general
welfare of the public.



   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be
given by the City Administrator in writing, setting forth specifically the
grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his or her last known address at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing, or shall be delivered by a
police officer in the same manner as a summons at least three days prior to
the date set for hearing.



(2004 Code, § 111.12)  (Ord. 92-52, passed 2-25-1992; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.13  REAPPLICATION.



   No licensee whose license has been revoked shall make further
application until at least six months have elapsed since the last previous
revocation.



(2004 Code, § 111.13)  (Ord. 92-52, passed 2-25-1992; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



§ 111.14  EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.



   (A)   All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire at midnight on December 31 in the year when issued.



   (B)   Other than annual, licenses shall expire at midnight on the
date specified in the license.



(2004 Code, § 111.14)  (Ord. 92-52, passed 2-25-1992; Ord. 03-340, passed -
-2003)



CHAPTER 112:  LIQUOR REGULATIONS



Section




General Provisions




   112.001   Definitions



   112.002   License fees; fixing; refunding




General Licensing; Procedures and Requirements




   112.015   Application and fee



   112.016   License procedures



   112.017   Duplicate licenses



   112.018   Posting required



   112.019   Resident manager or agent



   112.020   Eligibility



   112.021   Renewal



   112.022   Delinquent taxes and charges



   112.023   Parking requirements



   112.024   Conditional licenses



   112.025   Premises licensed



   112.026   Financial responsibility; insurance certificate




Licensed Premises; Regulations




   112.040   Inspections



   112.041   Premises amendment



   112.042   Employer responsibility



   112.043   Gambling prohibited



   112.044   Nudity and obscenity prohibited




Unlawful Sales, Possession and Consumption




   112.055   Minors; proof of age



   112.056   Open containers restricted



   112.057   Alcoholic beverages on school grounds restricted



   112.058   Unlawful sales and consumption



   112.059   Other unlawful acts




3.2% Malt Liquor




   112.070   License required



   112.071   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor license



   112.072   Hours and days of sales




Intoxicating Liquor




   112.085   License required



   112.086   Sports, convention or cultural facilities license



   112.087   Temporary intoxicating liquor license



   112.088   Hours and days of sales



   112.089   On-sale wine license required



   112.090   Hours and days of wine on-sales



   112.091   Intoxicating malt liquors



   112.092   Intoxicating liquor or on-sale wine license; regulations
and restrictions



   112.093   Caterers; special provisions



   112.094   Community festivals




Municipal Liquor Dispensary




   112.105   Establishment



   112.106   Liquor Dispensary Fund




Consumption and Display




   112.120   License required



   112.121   Restrictions and regulations



   112.122   One-day consumption and display license




Licenses Related to Brewers and Distillers




   112.135   Definitions



   112.136   Taproom license



   112.137   Small brewer off-sale license



   112.138   Brew pub on-sale license



   112.139   Brew pub off-sale license



   112.140   Brew on-premise store



   112.141   Micro-distillery cocktail room license




GENERAL PROVISIONS




§ 112.001  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. Malt liquor containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by
volume, nor more than 3.2% alcohol by weight. This definition includes
so-called “malt coolers” within the alcoholic content limits stated
herein.



   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by
volume, including, but not limited to, 3.2% malt liquor, wine and liquor as
defined in this section.



   AFFILIATE or SUBSIDIARY COMPANY. A company in which a manufacturer or
its stockholders own a majority of the stock.



   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
chapter.



   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as a request for a license, furnished by the city
and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the issuance
of a license for a business.



   BREWER. A person who manufactures 3.2% malt liquor for sale.



   BUSINESS RECORDS. Include, but are not limited to, articles of
incorporation, bylaws, corporate minutes, records of sale and shipping
documents, as well as lists of complaints whether or not those complaints
have resulted in a filing with an appropriate government agency, and also
include records relating to any litigation threatened or commenced against a
license holder arising out of the operation of licensed premises pursuant to
the license granted herein.



   CLUB.



      (1)   An incorporated organization organized under the laws of
the state for civic, fraternal, social or business purposes, for intellectual
improvement or for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered
veterans’ organization, which:



         (a)   Has more than 50 members;



         (b)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a
building for more than one year that is suitable and adequate for the
accommodation of its members; and



         (c)   Is directed by a board of directors, executive
committee or other similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for
that purpose.



      (2)   No member, officer, agent or employee shall receive any
profit from the distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the CLUB,
or their guests, beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each
year by the governing body. The CLUB or congressionally chartered veterans’
organization must have been in existence for at least three years.



   COMMISSIONER. The State Commissioner of Public Safety.



   HOTEL. An establishment where food and lodging are regularly furnished
to transients and which has:



      (1)   A resident proprietor or manager;



      (2)   A dining room serving the general public at tables and
having facilities for seating at least 85 guests at one time; and



      (3)   At least ten guest rooms.



   INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANT. An accountant engaged in the practice of public
accountancy who is not an employee of, on the staff of or otherwise
affiliated with the licensed premises or the party holding the license at
issue. An accountant who derives more than one-third of his or her gross
income from services performed for the license holder is not INDEPENDENT, as
defined herein. The term INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANT includes, but is not limited
to, certified public accountants and licensed public accountants.



   INTOXICATING LIQUOR or LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol and distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol
by weight. This definition includes so-called “wine coolers” and “malt
coolers” within the alcoholic content limits stated herein.



   LICENSE. A document, issued by the city to an applicant, permitting him
or her to carry on and transact the business stated therein.



   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and
prior to issuance of a license to transact and carry on the business stated
therein.



   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her approved
application, holds a valid, current, unexpired license, which has neither
been revoked nor is then under suspension, from the city for carrying on the
business stated therein.



   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the issued license.



   MALT LIQUOR. Any 3.2% malt liquor, ale or other beverage made from malt
by fermentation and containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume.



   MANUFACTURER. Every person who, by any process of manufacture,
fermenting, brewing, distilling, refining, rectifying, blending or by the
combination of different materials, prepares or produces alcoholic beverages
for sale.



   MEAL. Entrees and sandwiches offered on a restaurant menu. The term
does not include appetizers, snacks and non-meal-related food.



   MINOR. Any natural person who has not attained the age of 21 years.



   OFF-SALE. The sale of alcoholic beverages in original packages for
consumption off the licensed premises only.



   ON-SALE. The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
licensed premises only.



   PACKAGE and ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any container or receptacle holding
alcoholic beverages, which container or receptacle is corked, capped or
sealed by a manufacturer or wholesaler.



   RESTAURANT. An establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of
a single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly served at tables to
the general public, and having seating capacity for at least 30 guests. A
RESTAURANT qualifying under this chapter shall submit proof to the City
Council that not less than 40% of the gross sales of the establishment for
which the on-sale license is to be used are from the serving of food. Upon
the request of the City Administrator, the applicant shall submit a financial
statement signed by an independent accountant that indicates the total gross
sales of the establishment and the total food sales of the RESTAURANT for the
calendar year or fiscal year preceding the date of the renewal application.



   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All barters and all manners or means of furnishing
alcoholic beverages to persons, including the furnishing in violation or
evasion of law.



   WHOLESALER. Any person engaged in the business of selling alcoholic
beverages to a licensee from a stock maintained in a warehouse.



   WINE. A beverage made without rectification or fortification by the
fermentation of sound ripe grapes, grape juice, other fruits or honey, and
also carbonated wine, wine made from condensed grape must, wine made from
other agricultural products, imitation wine, compounds sold as WINE,
vermouth, cider, perry and sake, containing not less than 0.5%, nor more than
14%, alcohol by volume. This definition includes so-called “wine coolers”
within the alcoholic content limits stated herein.



(2004 Code, § 112.001)  (Ord. 93-76, passed 3-23-1993; Ord. 98-217, passed
2-10-1998; Ord. 15-0744, passed 9-8-2015)



§ 112.002  LICENSE FEES; FIXING; REFUNDING.



   (A)   Fixing fees. Except as otherwise specifically provided, all
fees for licenses provided for in this chapter, including, but not by way of
limitation, license fees, investigation and administration fees, shall be
fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by ordinance and uniformly
enforced. The fees may, from time to time, be amended by the Council by
ordinance. A copy of the ordinance shall be kept on file in the office of the
City Administrator and open to inspection during regular business hours. For
the purpose of fixing these fees, the Council may categorize and classify;
provided that, the categorization and classification shall be included in the
ordinance authorized by this section.



   (B)   Refundment. A pro rata share of an annual license fee for a
license to sell alcoholic beverages, either on-sale or off-sale, shall be
refunded to the licensee, or to his or her estate, if:



      (1)   The business ceases to operate because of destruction or
damage;



      (2)   The licensee dies;



      (3)   The business ceases to be lawful for a reason other than
a license revocation or suspension; or



      (4)   The licensee ceases to carry on the licensed business
under the license.



(2004 Code, § 112.002)



GENERAL LICENSING; PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS



§ 112.015  APPLICATION AND FEE.



   (A)   Application. All applications shall be made at the office of
the City Administrator upon forms prescribed by the city, or if by the
Commissioner, then together with additional information as the Council may
desire. Information required may vary with the type of business organization
making application. All questions asked or information required by the
application forms shall be answered fully and completely by the applicant.
Every application for the issuance or renewal of an alcoholic beverage
license must include a copy of each summons received by the applicant during
the preceding year under M.S. § 340A.802, as it may be amended from time to
time. Upon the request of the City Administrator, the applicant shall make
the books and records of the business available for inspection at any time
either before the license is issued or during the period of time the license
is in full force and effect.



   (B)   False statements. It is unlawful for any applicant to
intentionally make a false statement or omission upon any application form.
Any false statement in an application, or any willful omission to state any
information called for on the application form shall, upon discovery of that
falsehood, work an automatic refusal of license or, if already issued, shall
render any license issued pursuant thereto void and of no effect to protect
the applicant from prosecution for violation of this chapter, or any part
thereof.



   (C)   Application and investigation fees. At the time the initial
application is made, an applicant for a license under this chapter shall
accompany the application with payment of a fee to be considered an
application and investigation fee, not refundable to the applicant, to cover
the cost of the city in processing the application and the investigation of
the applicant. No application fee shall be required of an applicant for a
temporary 3.2% malt liquor license.



(2004 Code, § 112.015)  (Ord. 93-76, passed 3-23-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 112.016  LICENSE PROCEDURES.



   (A)   Hearing. Prior to granting an initial liquor license, a public
hearing shall be held by the Council after notice by at least one publication
in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing. Opportunity
shall be given any person to be heard for or against granting the license.
After the hearing, the Council may, in its discretion, grant or refuse the
license. A public hearing may be held, but is not required, on renewal of
liquor licenses and other licenses under this chapter.



   (B)   Granting. The Council may approve any application for the
period of the remainder of the then current license year or for the entire
ensuing license year. All applications including proposed license periods
must be consistent with this chapter. Prior to consideration of any
application for a license, the applicant shall pay the license fee and, if
applicable, pay the investigation fee. Upon rejection of any application for
a license, or upon withdrawal of an application before consideration by the
Council, the  license fee shall be refunded to the applicant. Failure to pay
any portion of a fee when due shall be cause for revocation.



   (C)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator
shall forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by
the city or the Commissioner, as the case may be, and upon payment of the
license fee. All licenses shall be on a calendar year basis unless otherwise
specified herein. For licenses issued and which are to become effective other
than on the first day of the licensed year, the fee to be paid with the
application shall be a pro rata share of the annual license fee. Licenses
shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein described.



   (D)   Transfer. The license granted under this chapter is for the
person and the premises named on the approved license application. No
transfer of a license shall be permitted from place to place or from person
to person without complying with the requirements of an original application,
except in the case in which an existing non-corporate licensee is
incorporating and the incorporation does not affect the ownership, control or
interest of the existing licensed establishment. An establishment licensed
under this chapter shall immediately notify the city of the sale or transfer
of the establishment. The City Council, in its discretion, may execute a
management agreement which covers the period of time between the sale or
transfer of the business and the issuance of the new owner’s license and
this management agreement shall thus control of all intoxicating liquor sales
in the existing licensee or a manager responsible to the existing licensee.
The agreement shall be approved by the City Council.



   (E)   Refusal and termination. The Council may, in its sole
discretion and for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application
including any application to renew a liquor license or any other license
under this chapter. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration, revocation
or refund under the circumstances provided for herein.



   (F)   Public interest. No license under this chapter may be issued,
transferred or renewed if the results of any investigation show, to the
satisfaction of the Council, that the issuance, transfer or renewal would not
be in the public interest.



   (G)   Revocation or suspension. The Council may revoke or suspend,
for a period of time it deems proper, a license granted under the provisions
of this chapter, or impose a civil fine not to exceed $5,000 for each
violation on a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with a statute,
regulation or provision of this code of ordinances relating to alcoholic
beverages. Upon conviction of any licensee or agent or employee of a licensee
for violating any law relating to the sale or possession of 3.2% malt liquor,
wine or liquor upon premises of the licensee, a license granted under the
provisions of this chapter may be suspended or revoked. License revocation
shall be immediate if mandated by statute. No suspension or revocation shall
take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing
before the Council, a committee of the Council, or a hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, being M.S. §§ 14.001 to 14.69, as they may
be amended from time to time, as may be determined by the Council in action
calling the hearing. The hearing shall be called by the Council upon written
notice to the licensee served in person or by certified mail not less than
15, nor more than 30, days prior to the hearing date, stating the time, place
and purpose thereof. As  additional restrictions or regulations on licensees
under this chapter, and in addition to grounds for revocation or suspension
stated in this code or statute, the following shall also be grounds for this
action:



      (1)   The licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon
licensed premises unrelated to the sale of 3.2% malt liquor, wine or
intoxicating liquor;



      (2)   The licensee had knowledge of illegal acts upon licensed
premises, but failed to report the same to police;



      (3)   The licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with
police in investigating alleged illegal acts upon licensed premises; or



      (4)   The activities of the licensee created a serious danger
to public health, safety or welfare.



   (H)   Corporate applicants and licensees. A corporate applicant, at
the time of application, shall furnish the city with a list of all persons
who have an interest in the corporation and the extent of that interest. The
list shall name all shareholders and show the number of shares held by each,
either individually or beneficially for others. It is the duty of each
corporate licensee to notify the City Administrator in writing of any change
in legal ownership or beneficial interest in the corporation or in its
shares. Any change in the ownership or beneficial interest in the shares
entitled to be voted at a meeting of the shareholders of a corporate
licensee, which results in the change of voting control of the corporation by
the persons owning the shares therein, shall be deemed equivalent to a
transfer of the license issued to the corporation, and any license shall be
revoked 30 days after this type of change in ownership or beneficial interest
of shares unless the Council has been notified of the change in writing and
has approved it by appropriate action. The Council, or any officer of the
city designated by it, may at any reasonable time examine the stock transfer
records and minute books of any corporate licensee in order to verify and
identify the shareholders, and the Council or its designated officer may
examine the business records of any other licensee to the extent necessary to
disclose the interest which persons other than the licensee have in the
licensed business. The Council may revoke any license issued upon its
determination that a change of ownership of shares in a corporate licensee or
any change of ownership of any interest in the business of any other licensee
has actually resulted in the change of control of the licensed business so as
materially to affect the integrity and character of its management and its
operation, but no such action shall be taken until after a hearing by the
Council on notice to the licensee.



(2004 Code, § 112.016)  (Ord. 95-144, passed 4-25-1995; Ord. 98-217, passed
2-10-1998; Ord. 00-280, passed 7-25-2000; Ord. 04-384, passed 7-27-2004) 
Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.017  DUPLICATE LICENSES.



   Duplicates of all original licenses under this chapter may be issued by
the City Administrator without action by the Council, upon licensee’s
affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of the fee
adopted by ordinance of the Council for issuance of the duplicate. All
duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked “Duplicate”.



(2004 Code, § 112.017)



§ 112.018  POSTING REQUIRED.



   All licensees shall conspicuously post their licenses in their places
of business.



(2004 Code, § 112.018)



§ 112.019  RESIDENT MANAGER OR AGENT.



   (A)   Before a license is issued under this chapter to an individual
who is a non-resident of the city, to more than one individual whether or not
they are residents of the city, or to a corporation, partnership or
association, the applicant or applicants shall appoint in writing a natural
person who is a resident of the city as its manager or agent. This resident
manager or agent shall, by the terms of his or her written consent:



      (1)   Take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed
premises; and



      (2)   Serve as agent for service of notices and other
processes relating to the license.



   (B)   This manager or agent shall be subject to an investigation and
shall be a person who, by reason of age, character, reputation and other
attributes, could qualify individually as a licensee. If the manager or agent
ceases to be a resident of the city or ceases to act in that capacity for the
licensee without appointment of a successor, the license issued pursuant to
this appointment shall be subject to revocation or suspension.



(2004 Code, § 112.019)



§ 112.020  ELIGIBILITY.



   (A)   No license under this chapter may be issued to:



      (1)   A person not a citizen of the United States or a
resident alien;



      (2)   A person who within five years of the license
application has been convicted of a willful violation of a federal or state
law, or local ordinance governing the manufacture, sale, distribution or
possession for sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages;



      (3)   A person who has had an alcoholic beverage license
revoked within five years of the license application, or to any person who at
the time of the violation owns any interest, whether as a holder of more than
5% of the capital stock of a corporate licensee, as a partner or otherwise,
in the premises or in the business conducted thereon, or to a corporation,
partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm in which any
thus-described person is in any manner interested; or



      (4)   A person under the age of 21 years.



   (B)   No person holding a license from the Commissioner as a
manufacturer, brewer or wholesaler may have any ownership, in whole or in
part, in a business holding an alcoholic beverage license from the city.



(2004 Code, § 112.020)



§ 112.021  RENEWAL.



   Applications for renewal of all licenses under this chapter shall be
made at least 60 days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and
shall contain information as is required by the city. This time requirement
may be waived by the Council for good and sufficient cause.



(2004 Code, § 112.021)



§ 112.022  DELINQUENT TAXES AND CHARGES.



   No license under this chapter shall be granted for operation on any
premises upon which taxes, assessments or installments thereof, or other
financial claims of the city, are owed and are delinquent and unpaid.



(2004 Code, § 112.022)



§ 112.023  PARKING REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   No initial license shall be granted for operation on premises
unless those premises include a surfaced off-street parking area within 100
feet of a public entrance and have a parking capacity of one car space for
each three people of seating capacity.



   (B)   This off-street parking area shall be owned or leased by the
owner of those premises; or, in the sole discretion of the City Council, the
parking requirement may be satisfied by the use of municipal parking
facilities (off-street) if the same are located within 100 feet of a public
entrance to the license holder’s premises.



(2004 Code, § 112.023)  (Ord. 98-217, passed 2-10-1998)



§ 112.024  CONDITIONAL LICENSES.



   Notwithstanding any provision or law to the contrary, the Council may,
upon a finding of the necessity therefor, place special conditions and
restrictions, in addition to those stated in this chapter, upon any license
as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.



(2004 Code, § 112.024)



§ 112.025  PREMISES LICENSED.



   Unless expressly stated therein, a license issued under the provisions
of this chapter shall be valid only for a space that is compact and
contiguous situated on the premises described in the license, and all
transactions relating to a sale under the license must take place on the
licensed premises. It is the responsibility of the license holder to advise
the City Council of any substantial remodeling of the premises, including,
but not limited to, any enlarging, alteration or extension of the premises.



(2004 Code, § 112.025)  (Ord. 98-217, passed 2-10-1998; Ord. 14-0735,
passed 10-28-2014)



§ 112.026  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY; INSURANCE CERTIFICATE.



   (A)   Financial responsibility of licensees.



      (1)   Proof. No alcoholic beverage license shall be issued or
renewed unless and until the applicant has provided proof of financial
responsibility, imposed by statute, by filing with the city a certificate
that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool providing minimum
coverages of:



         (a)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to
any one person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one
person, in the amount of $100,000 because of bodily injury to two or more
persons in any one occurrence, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury
to or destruction of property of others in any one occurrence; and



         (b)   Fifty thousand dollars for loss of means of
support of any one person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit
for one person, $100,000 for loss of means of support of two or more persons
in any one occurrence.



      (2)   Exception. This division (A) does not apply to on-sale
3.2% malt liquor licensees with sales of 3.2% malt liquor of less than
$25,000 for the preceding year, nor to off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licensees
with sales of 3.2% malt liquor of less than $50,000 for the preceding year,
nor does it apply to holders of on-sale wine licenses with sales of wine of
less than $25,000 for the preceding year. An affidavit of the licensee shall
be required to establish the exemption under this division (A).



      (3)   Documents submitted to Commissioner. All proofs of
financial responsibility and exemption affidavits filed with the city under
this division (A) shall be submitted by the city to the Commissioner.



   (B)   Insurance certificate requirements.



      (1)   Whenever an insurance certificate is required by this
chapter, the applicant shall file with the City Administrator a certificate
of insurance showing:



         (a)   The limits are at least as high as required;



         (b)   Coverage is effective for at least the license
term approved; and



         (c)   The insurance will not be cancelled or terminated
without 30 days’ written notice served upon the City Administrator.



      (2)   Cancellation or termination of coverage shall be grounds
for license revocation.



(2004 Code, § 112.026)




LICENSED PREMISES; REGULATIONS




§ 112.040  INSPECTIONS.



   (A)   In light of the high risk of involvement with illegal conduct
an establishment serving intoxicating liquor poses to the general public, the
Police Department, or other designee of the City Council, shall have the
right to enter, inspect and search the licensed premises without a search and
seizure warrant during the hours in which the licensed premises are open for
the sale of intoxicating liquor. The business records of the licensee,
including income tax returns, shall be available for inspection during the
hours in which the licensed premises are open for the sale of intoxicating
liquor.



   (B)   In light of the high risks associated with the sale of
alcoholic beverages, all premises licensed under this chapter shall at all
times be open to inspection by any police officer to determine whether or not
this chapter and all other laws are being observed. Business records of the
licensee shall also be available for inspection by city officials during the
days in which the licensed premises are open for the sale of alcoholic
beverages.



(2004 Code, § 112.040)  (Ord. 98-217, passed 2-10-1998)



§ 112.041  PREMISES AMENDMENT.



   A holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall notify the
City Council, at least 30 days in advance, of any event in which the licensee
proposes to amend the liquor license premises to provide for liquor service
in a compact and contiguous area not included in the original license
application. The City Council, in its sole discretion, shall consider, review
and rule upon all these amendments to the licensed premises.



(2004 Code, § 112.041)  (Ord. 98-217, passed 2-10-1998)



§ 112.042  EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITY.



   Any sale of an alcoholic beverage in or from any premises licensed
under this chapter by any employee authorized to make that sale in or from
that place is the act of the employer as well as of the person actually
making the sale; and every employer is liable to all of the penalties, except
criminal penalties, provided by law for that sale, equally with the person
actually making the sale.



(2004 Code, § 112.042)



§ 112.043  GAMBLING PROHIBITED.



   It is unlawful for any licensee to keep, possess or operate, or permit
the keeping, possession or operation, on licensed premises, of dice or any
other gambling device, or permit raffles to be conducted, except those as are
authorized by statute or this code of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 112.043)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.044  NUDITY AND OBSCENITY PROHIBITED.



   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      NUDITY. Uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-pubertal
human genitals, pubic areas, the post-pubertal human female breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola, or the covered human male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state. For purposes of this definition, a
female breast is considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and
the areola only are covered.



      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre
costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically
restrained on the part of one so clothed.



      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Human masturbation, sexual intercourse or any
touching of the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or
female, or the breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the
same or opposite sex or between humans and animals, in an act of apparent
sexual stimulation or gratification.



      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals
or the breasts of the female when in a state of sexual stimulation, or the
sensual experiences of humans engaging in or witnessing sexual conduct or
nudity.



   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person issued a license
provided for in this chapter to permit upon licensed premises any nudity by
any agent, employee, patron or other person.



(2004 Code, § 112.044)  Penalty, see § 10.99




UNLAWFUL SALES, POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION




§ 112.055  MINORS; PROOF OF AGE.



   (A)   Consumption. It is unlawful for any:



      (1)   Licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic
beverages on licensed premises; or



      (2)   Minor to consume alcoholic beverages, except in the
household of the minor’s parent or guardian, and then only with the consent
of that parent or guardian.



   (B)   Purchasing. It is unlawful for any:



      (1)   Person to sell, barter, furnish or give alcoholic
beverages to a minor unless that person is the parent or guardian of the
minor, and then only for consumption in the household of that parent or
guardian;



      (2)   Minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic
beverage; or



      (3)   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure any
alcoholic beverage.



   (C)   Possession. It is unlawful for a minor to possess any
alcoholic beverage with the intent to consume it at a place other than the
household of the minor’s parent or guardian. Possession of an alcoholic
beverage by a minor at a place other than the household of the parent or
guardian is prima facie evidence of intent to consume it at a place other
than the household of the minor’s parent or guardian.



   (D)   Entering licensed premises. It is unlawful for any minor, as
defined in this chapter, to enter licensed premises or the Municipal Liquor
Dispensary for the purpose of purchasing or consuming any alcoholic beverage.



      (1)   It is not unlawful for any person who has attained the
age of 18 years to enter licensed premises for the following purposes:



         (a)   To perform work for the establishment, including
the serving of alcoholic beverages, unless otherwise prohibited by statute;



         (b)   To consume meals; or



         (c)   To attend social functions that are held in a
portion of the establishment where liquor is not sold.



      (2)   It is unlawful for a licensee to permit a person under
the age of 18 years to enter licensed premises unless attending a social
event at which alcoholic beverages are not served, or in the company of a
parent or guardian.



   (E)   Misrepresentation of age. It is unlawful for a minor to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing an alcoholic
beverage.



   (F)   Proof of age. Proof of age for purchasing or consuming
alcoholic beverages may be established only by a valid driver’s license, a
state identification card or, in the case of a foreign national, by a valid
passport.



(2004 Code, § 112.055)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.056  OPEN CONTAINERS RESTRICTED.



   (A)   Except when authorized through a liquor license, franchise or
other permisssion granted by the City Council, it is unlawful for any person
to consume or possess, in an unsealed container, any alcoholic beverage on or
in any:



      (1)   City park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.;



      (2)   Street;



      (3)   Public property;



      (4)   Private parking lot to which the public has access; or



      (5)   Any business not licensed to sell alcoholic beverages.



   (B)   This section shall not apply to the possession of an unsealed
container in a motor vehicle when the container is kept in the trunk of that
vehicle if it is equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other area of the
vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers, if the motor
vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. For the purpose of this section, a
utility or glove compartment shall be deemed to be within the area occupied
by the driver or passengers.



(2004 Code, § 112.056)  (Ord. 14-0734, passed 10-28-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 112.057  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON SCHOOL GROUNDS RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful for any person to introduce upon, or have in his or her
possession upon or in, any school ground, schoolhouse or school building, any
alcoholic beverage, except for experiments in laboratories and except for
those organizations which have been issued temporary licenses to sell 3.2%
malt liquor, and for any person to possess 3.2% malt liquor as a result of a
purchase from those organizations holding temporary licenses.



(2004 Code, § 112.057)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.058  UNLAWFUL SALES AND CONSUMPTION.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly induce another to
make an illegal sale or purchase of an alcoholic beverage.



   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to sell or serve an alcoholic
beverage to any person who is obviously intoxicated.



   (C)   It is unlawful for any licensee to fail, where doubt could
exist, to require adequate proof of age of a person upon licensed premises.



   (D)   It is unlawful for any licensee to sell an alcoholic beverage
on any day, or during any hour, when that sale is not permitted by law.



   (E)   It is unlawful for any licensee to allow consumption of an
alcoholic beverage on licensed premises on any day, or during any hour, when
that consumption is not permitted by law.



   (F)   It is unlawful for any person to purchase an alcoholic
beverage on any day, or during any hour, when that sale is not permitted by
law.



(2004 Code, § 112.058)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.059  OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS.



   (A)   No person shall consume, nor shall any on-sale licensee
permit, any consumption of alcoholic beverages in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.



   (B)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle or other
container containing alcoholic beverages to remain upon any table, bar, stool
or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes after the
time when a sale can legally occur.



   (C)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall
remain on the on-sale licenses premises more than 30 minutes after the time
when a sale can legally occur.



   (D)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds
for revocation or suspension of the license.



(2004 Code, § 112.059)  (Ord. 08-0501, passed 5-13-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99



3.2% MALT LIQUOR



§ 112.070  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise
dispose of 3.2% malt liquor, as part of a commercial transaction, without a
license therefor from the city.



   (B)   This section shall not apply to sales by manufacturers to
wholesalers or to sales by wholesalers to persons holding 3.2% malt liquor
licenses from the city.



   (C)   Annual on-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses may be issued only to
drug stores, restaurants, hotels, bowling centers, clubs and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.



(2004 Code, § 112.070)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.071  TEMPORARY 3.2% MALT LIQUOR LICENSE.



   (A)   Applicant. A club or charitable, religious or non-profit
organization shall qualify for a temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license.



   (B)   Conditions.



      (1)   An application for a temporary license shall state the
exact dates and place of proposed temporary sale.



      (2)   No applicant shall qualify for a temporary license for
more than a total of seven days in any calendar year.



      (3)   The Council may, but at no time shall, it be under any
obligation whatsoever to, grant a temporary 3.2% malt liquor license on
premises owned or controlled by the city. This type of license may be
conditioned, qualified or restricted as the Council sees fit.



         (a)   If the premises to be licensed are owned or under
the control of the city, the applicant shall file with the city, prior to
issuance of the license, a certificate of liability insurance coverage in at
least the sum of $100,000 for injury to any one person and $300,000 for
injury to more than one person, and $10,000 for property damage, naming the
city as an insured during the license period.



         (b)   The license shall be issued only on the condition
that the applicant will not sell in excess of $10,000 (retail value) worth of
3.2% malt liquor in any calendar year, and thereupon shall be exempt from
proof of financial responsibility as provided for herein.



(2004 Code, § 112.071)



§ 112.072  HOURS AND DAYS OF SALES.



   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor shall be made between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday, nor between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday.



(2004 Code, § 112.072)  (Ord. 97-213, passed 11-25-1997)  Penalty, see §
10.99




INTOXICATING LIQUOR




§ 112.085  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise
dispose of intoxicating liquor as part of a commercial transaction, without a
license therefor from the city.



   (B)   This section shall not apply to:



      (1)   Potable liquors as are intended for therapeutic purposes
and not as a beverage;



      (2)   Industrial alcohol and its compounds not prepared or
used for beverage purposes;



      (3)   Wine in the possession of a person duly licensed under
this chapter as an on-sale wine licensee;



      (4)   Sales by manufacturers to wholesalers duly licensed as
such by the Commissioner; or



      (5)   Sales by wholesalers to persons holding intoxicating
liquor licenses from the city.



   (C)   The city may issue annual on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses
only to restaurants and clubs or congressionally chartered veterans’
organizations; provided that, liquor sales will be made only to members and
bona fide guests. The city, at the option of the City Council, may also issue
joint 3.2% malt liquor and wine licenses. The City Council may, at its sole
discretion, provide that the licensee may contract for intoxicating liquor
catering services with the holder of a full year on-sale intoxicating liquor
license issued by the city. A license from the Commissioner is also required.



(2004 Code, § 112.085)  (Ord. 95-146, passed 4-25-1995; Ord. 98-217, passed
2-10-1998)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.086  SPORTS, CONVENTION OR CULTURAL FACILITIES LICENSE.



   The Council may authorize any holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license, which under this section shall include clubs and restaurants, issued
by the city or by an adjacent municipality, to sell liquor at any convention,
banquet, conference, meeting or social affair conducted on the premises of a
sports, convention or cultural facility owned by the city, or instrumentality
thereof having independent policy-making and appropriating authority and
located within the city. The licensee must be engaged to sell liquor at the
event by the person or organization permitted to use the premises, and may
sell liquor only to persons attending the event. The licensee shall not sell
liquor to any person attending or participating in any amateur athletic
event. These sales may be limited to designated areas of the facility. All
sales of this type shall be subject to all laws relating thereto.



(2004 Code, § 112.086)  (Ord. 02-309, passed 3-26-2002; Ord. 02-309, passed
4-23-2002)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.087  TEMPORARY INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSE.



   (A)   License authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of this code
of ordinances to the contrary, the Council may issue a license for the
temporary on-sale of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event
sponsored by the licensee. This license may provide that the licensee may
contract with the holder of a full-year on-sale license, issued by the city,
for liquor catering services.



   (B)   Applicant. The applicant for a license under this section must
be a club or charitable, religious or other non-profit organization in
existence for at least three years.



   (C)   Terms and conditions of license.



      (1)   No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner.



      (2)   No license shall be issued for more than three
consecutive days.



      (3)   All licenses and licensees are subject to all provisions
of statutes and this code relating to liquor sale and licensing. The licensee
shall provide proof of financial responsibility coverage and, in the case of
catering by a full-year on-sale licensee, the caterer shall provide proof of
the extension of that coverage to the licensed premises.



      (4)   Licenses may authorize sales on premises other than
those owned or permanently occupied by the licensee.



   (D)   Insurance required. The Council may, but at no time shall it
be under any obligation whatsoever to, grant a temporary intoxicating liquor
license on premises owned or controlled by the city. This type of license may
be conditioned, qualified or restricted as the Council sees fit. If the
premises to be licensed are owned or under the control of the city, the
applicant shall agree to indemnity, defend and hold harmless the city and
file with the city, prior to issuance of the license, a certificate of
liability insurance coverage in at least the sum of $300,000 for injury to
any one person, $1,000,000 for injury to more than one person and $10,000 for
property damage, naming the city as an insured during the license period.



(2004 Code, § 112.087)



§ 112.088  HOURS AND DAYS OF SALES.



   No on-sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Sunday, nor between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m.
on Monday, nor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday
through Saturday. No off-sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made on
Sundays, except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., nor before
8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday, nor on Thanksgiving
Day; or Christmas Day, December 25. No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be
made after 8:00 p.m. on December 24. No delivery of alcohol to an off- sale
licensee may be made by a wholesaler or accepted by an off-sale licensee on a
Sunday. No order solicitation or merchandising may be made by a wholesaler on
a Sunday.



(2004 Code, § 112.088)  (Ord. 96-172, passed 9-10-1996; Ord. 97-213, passed
11-25-1997; Ord. 98-217, passed 2-10-1998; Ord. 10-0558, passed 9-14-2010;
Ord. 15-0744, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 17-771, passed 7-1-2017)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99



§ 112.089  ON-SALE WINE LICENSE REQUIRED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise
dispose of wine on-sale, as part of a commercial transaction, without a
license therefor from the city.



   (B)   This section shall not apply to:



      (1)   Sales by manufacturers to wholesalers duly licensed as
such by the Commissioner;



      (2)   Sales by wholesalers to persons holding on-sale or
off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses from the city;



      (3)   Sales by wholesalers to persons holding on-sale wine
licenses from the city; or



      (4)   Sales by on-sale intoxicating liquor licensees on days
and during hours when on-sale liquor sales are permitted.



(2004 Code, § 112.089)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.090  HOURS AND DAYS OF WINE ON-SALES.



   No on-sale of wine shall be made between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
10:00 a.m. on Sunday, nor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the
days of Monday through Saturday.



(2004 Code, § 112.090)  (Ord. 97-213, passed 11-25-1997)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 112.091  INTOXICATING MALT LIQUORS.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise
dispose of intoxicating malt liquors, as part of a commercial transaction,
without a liquor license pursuant to either § 112.085 of this chapter or
this section. A holder of an on-sale wine license who is also licensed to
sell 3.2% malt liquors at on-sale and whose gross receipts are at least 60%
attributable to the sale of food, may sell intoxicating malt liquors at
on-sale without any additional license from the city.



   (B)   The seller qualifying under this section shall submit proof to
the City Council that not less than 60% of the gross sales of the
establishment are from the serving of food. Upon request of the City
Administrator, the seller shall submit a financial statement signed by an
independent accountant that indicates the total gross sales of the
establishment and the total food sales of the seller for the calendar year or
fiscal year preceding the date of the seller’s license renewal application.



(2004 Code, § 112.091)  (Ord. 95-140, passed 3-28-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 112.092  INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR ON-SALE WINE LICENSE; REGULATIONS AND
RESTRICTIONS.



   (A)   Licenses in connection with premises of another. A license may
not be issued to a person in connection with the premises of another to whom
a license could not be issued under the provisions of this chapter. This
division (A) does not prevent the granting of a license to a proper lessee
because the person has leased the premises of a minor, a non-citizen who is
not a resident alien, or a person who has been convicted of a crime other
than a violation of this chapter.



   (B)   Employment of minors. No person under 18 years of age may sell
or serve intoxicating liquor or wine on licensed premises.



   (C)   Premises eligible. On-sale wine licenses shall be granted only
to restaurants, as defined in this chapter; provided, however, for purposes
of this section, the restaurant shall have appropriate facilities for seating
not less than 25 guests at one time.



(2004 Code, § 112.092)  (Ord. 98-217, passed 2-10-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 112.093  CATERERS; SPECIAL PROVISIONS.



   (A)   City Council findings. The City Council makes the following
findings regarding the need to enact additional sale provisions governing
persons selling or furnishing alcoholic beverages pursuant to a caterer’s
permit issued pursuant to M.S. § 340A.404(12), as it may be amended from
time to time. This statute authorizes the holder of such a permit to provide
alcoholic beverages at unlicensed locations; provided that, the sale is
incidental to a larger food service. This division (A) is enacted in order to
preserve the incidental nature of the caterer’s permit and to preserve the
underlying state and local framework for permanent on-sale intoxicating
liquor licenses. The issuance of a caterer’s permit does not allow a person
to, in effect, operate a permanent on-sale intoxicating liquor establishment;
rather it entitles the person to provide temporary alcoholic beverages as an
incidental part of a food service that prepares meals at special locations
apart from the licensee’s permanent location. The location requirements in
this section for the sale of alcoholic beverages at catered events are
enacted to assure compliance with existing state and local provisions
regarding on-sale licenses. Numerous events conducted at one location where
alcoholic beverages are provided by caterers thwarts the licensing scheme for
permanent on-sale intoxicating liquor establishments.



   (B)   Regulations. Events that are catered in accordance with M.S.
§ 340A.404(12), as it may be amended from time to time, shall comply with
the following additional sale provisions.



      (1)   No one location shall have more than 48 days of catered
events in one calendar year at which alcoholic beverages are served to the
general public, and in no case shall any one event of this type be for more
than four consecutive days.



      (2)   All such caterer’s licenses shall be approved by the
City Council, although no public hearing shall be required.



(2004 Code, § 112.093)  (Ord. 98-217, passed 2-10-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 112.094  COMMUNITY FESTIVALS.



   The City Council may authorize a holder of a retail on-sale
intoxicating liquor license issued by the city to dispense intoxicating
liquor off-premises at a community festival held within the city. The
authorization shall specify the area in which the intoxicating liquor must be
dispensed and consumed, and shall not be issued unless the licensee
demonstrates that it has liability insurance as prescribed by M.S. §
340A.409 to cover the event.



(Ord. 15-0744, passed 9-8-2015)




MUNICIPAL LIQUOR DISPENSARY




§ 112.105  ESTABLISHMENT.



   A Municipal Liquor Dispensary is hereby established to be operated
within the city for the off-sale of alcoholic beverages. The Dispensary shall
be at a place or places as the Council shall determine and may be either
leased or owned by the city. It shall be in the charge of a person known as
the manager who shall have assistants as may be necessary.



(2004 Code, § 112.105)



§ 112.106  LIQUOR DISPENSARY FUND.



   A Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby created into which all revenues
received from the operation of the Dispensary shall be paid, and from which
all operating expenses shall be paid. Any surplus accumulating in this Fund
may, from time to time, be transferred to the General Fund by ordinance of
the Council, and expended for any municipal purpose.



(2004 Code, § 112.106)




CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY




§ 112.120  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any business establishment or club not holding an
on-sale liquor license to directly or indirectly, or on any pretense or by
any device, sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise dispose of any liquid
for the purpose of mixing the same with liquor, or permit its members to
bring and keep a personal supply of liquor in lockers assigned to those
members, without a license therefor from the city.



(2004 Code, § 112.120)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.121  RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.



   (A)   Eligible licensees.



      (1)   Consumption and display permits may be issued only to:



         (a)   An applicant who has not, within five years prior
to the application, been convicted of a felony or of violating any provision
of this chapter or rule adopted under this chapter;



         (b)   A restaurant;



         (c)   A hotel;



         (d)   An establishment licensed for the sale of 3.2%
malt liquor;



         (e)   A resort as defined in section M.S. § 157.15, as
it may be amended from time to time;



         (f)   A club as defined in section M.S. § 340A.101,
Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time, or an unincorporated club
otherwise meeting that definition; and



         (g)   A bed and breakfast facility as defined in M.S. §
340A.4011, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.



      (2)   A consumption and display permit may not be issued to a
club holding an on-sale intoxicating liquor license.



      (3)   If the license issued under this section is cancelled,
suspended or revoked or allowed to lapse, for whatever reason, no renewal or
reissuance of the annual license under this section will be permitted.



   (B)   Application. Application for a license under this section
shall be made at least ten days in advance of the effective date for the
license, and the application shall be referred to the Chief of Police, who
will make an investigation to determine whether issuance of the license would
cause a nuisance to any adjoining property owners, or if the license should
be denied for any other reason.



   (C)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful to sell liquor on licensed
premises.



   (D)   License expiration. In order to coordinate the expiration of a
consumption and display license with a state permit, all licenses shall
expire on March 31 of each year.



   (E)   State permit required. Licenses shall be issued only to
holders of a consumption and display permit from the Commissioner.



   (F)   Lockers. A club to which a license is issued under this
section may allow members to bring and keep a personal supply of liquor in
lockers on the club’s premises. All bottles kept on the premises must have
attached labels signed by the member. No minor may keep a supply of liquor on
club premises.



   (G)   Hours and days. No licensee may permit a person to consume or
display liquor, and no person may consume or display liquor, between 1:00
a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sundays, or between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday
through Saturday.



(2004 Code, § 112.121)  (Ord. 97-213, passed 11-25-1997; Ord. 13-717,
passed 9-10-2013)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.122  ONE-DAY CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY LICENSE.



   (A)   License required. Any non-profit organization desiring to
serve liquids for the purpose of mixing with liquor and permitting the
consumption and display of liquor in conjunction with a social activity
sponsored by it, shall first obtain a license therefor from the city. It is
unlawful for any such organization to fail to obtain this license.



   (B)   Term. The term of this license shall be one day only.



   (C)   Application. Application for a license under this section
shall be made at least ten days in advance of the effective date for the
license, and the application shall be referred to the Chief of Police, who
will make an investigation to determine whether issuance of the license would
cause a nuisance to any adjoining property owners, or if the license should
be denied for any other reason.



   (D)   Limitation on number. The city shall issue no more than ten
licenses in any calendar year.



   (E)   License fee. The fee for a one-day license is $25.



   (F)   Approval. In addition to Council approval, the license must be
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.



(2004 Code, § 112.122)  Penalty, see § 10.99



LICENSES RELATED TO BREWERS AND DISTILLERS



§ 112.135  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   BREW ON-PREMISE STORE.  Facility that provides the ingredients and
equipment for a customer to use to brew malt liquor at the store.



   BREW PUBS.  Brewer that is a restaurant with a full on-sale
intoxicating liquor license that brews their own beer for consumption on
their licensed premise only.



   BREW PUBS OFF-SALE.  Brew pubs (as defined in this section) may sell
product (growlers) brewed on-premise to be consumed off-premise in 64 oz.
bottles or 750 ml. bottles.



   BREWER OFF-SALE (GROWLERS).  A brewer who brews less than the amount
of barrels indicated in M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(d ) and (c), as it may be
amended from time to time, of malt liquor in a year may sell malt liquor
brewed by the brewer for consumption off-premise.



   BREWERS.  Persons who manufacture malt liquor for sale.



   MICRO-DISTILLERY. A distillery operated within the state producing
premium, distilled spirits in total quantity not to exceed 40,000 proof
gallons in a calendar year.



   TAPROOMS.  Allows for sale of the brewer's own beer for consumption at
the brewery location.



(Ord. 14-08731, passed 8-12-2014; Ord. 15-0744, passed 9-8-2015)



§ 112.136  TAPROOM LICENSE.



   A brewer licensed under M.S. §  340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i), or (j), as
it may be amended from time to time, may be issued an on-sale liquor license
for the “on-sale” of malt liquor produced on the licensed premises,
subject to the following conditions:



   (A)   The on-sale of malt liquor may only be made during the days
and hours that “on-sale” of liquor may be made.



   (B)   A brewer may only hold one brewer taproom license under this
chapter.



   (C)   The only beverage alcohol that may be sold or consumed on the
premises of a brewery taproom will be the malt liquor produced by the brewer
upon the brewery premises.



   (D)   The annual license fee shall be set in accordance with M.S.
§  340A.408, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (E)   Liquor liability insurance is in effect in the coverage
amounts indicated in § 112.026 of this chapter.



   (F)   Licensed brewer taprooms may operate a restaurant on the
premises without additional licensure.



   (G)   License holders under this section are exempt from the
restaurant requirements as defined in § 112.001 of this chapter.



(Ord. 14-08731, passed 8-12-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.137  SMALL BREWER OFF-SALE LICENSE.



   A brewer licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(d), (i), or (j), as
it may be amended from time to time, may be licensed for the “off-sale”
of malt liquor produced and packaged on the licensed premises, subject to the
following conditions:



   (A)   Off-sale of malt liquor may only be made during the hours that
“off-sale” of liquor may be made;



   (B)   The malt liquor shall be packaged in sixty-four-ounce
containers commonly known as “growlers” or in 750 milliliter bottles;



   (C)   The malt liquor sold at “off-sale” must be removed from
the licensed premise before the applicable closing time at exclusive liquor
stoves;



   (D)   The “growler” must be sealed in such a manner that the
seal must be broken in order to open the container and the seal must bear the
name and address of the brewer. The containers or bottles shall be identified
as malt liquor, contain the name of the malt liquor and bear the name and
address of the brewer selling the malt liquor.



   (E)   The annual license fee shall be set in accordance with M.S. §
340A.408, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (F)   Liquor liability insurance is in effect in the coverage
amounts indicated in § 112.026 of this chapter.



   (G)   The establishment must pass inspection by the Minnesota
Alcohol and Gambling Division.



(Ord. 14-08731, passed 8-12-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.138  BREW PUB ON-SALE LICENSE.



   (A)   A brew pub license holder must be a restaurant as defined in
§ 112.135 of this chapter with a full on-sale intoxicating liquor license.



   (B)   An applicant for the brew pub on sale license must meet all of
the requirements imposed by the city for the issuance of an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license.



   (C)   A brew pub on-sale license holder may brew their own malt
liquor for consumption on their licensed premise only.



   (D)   A brew pub on-sale license holder must be in conformity with
M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 7(b), as it may be amended from time to time.



   (E)   The license holder must pass inspection by the Minnesota
Alcohol and Gambling Division.



(Ord. 14-08731, passed 8-12-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.139  BREW PUB OFF-SALE LICENSE.



   (A)   An applicant for the brew pub off sale license must meet all
of the requirements imposed by the city for the issuance of an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license.



   (B)   The malt liquor to be sold for off-premise consumption shall
be packed in 64 oz. bottles commonly known as “growlers” or in 750 ml.
bottles in conformity with M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 7(b), as it may be amended
from time to time.



   (C)   The annual license fee shall be set in accordance with M.S.
§  340A.408, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (D)   Hours and days of malt liquor sales under this license by the
brewer cannot exceed those days and hours of sale of the exclusive municipal
liquor store.



   (E)   The establishment must pass inspection by the Minnesota
Alcohol and Gambling Division.



(Ord. 14-08731, passed 8-12-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.140  BREW ON-PREMISE STORE.



   (A)   Alcoholic beverages may not be sold or otherwise provided to
customers of a brew on- premises store, unless the owner of the brew
on-premises store holds the appropriate liquor license.



   (B)   Customers using the brew on-premises store must be of the
minimum age required to purchase intoxicating liquor.



   (C)   Malt liquor brewed by a customer in the store must not be sold
and must be used by the customer solely for personal or family use.



(Ord. 14-08731, passed 8-12-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 112.141  MICRO-DISTILLERY COCKTAIL ROOM LICENSE.



   The City Council may issue a license for the sale of distilled liquor
produced by the distiller for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to
one distillery location owned by the distiller. Provided that:



   (A)   The applicant is licensed as a micro-distiller in the State of
Minnesota;



   (B)   The applicant holds no other micro-distillery cocktail room
licenses in the State of Minnesota;



   (C)   The applicant does not also hold a taproom license; and



   (D)   A taproom is not located on the same premises as the proposed
micro-distillery cocktail room license.



(Ord. 15-0744, passed 9-8-2015)



CHAPTER 113:  TOBACCO REGULATIONS



Section




General Provisions




   113.01   Purpose



   113.02   Definitions and interpretations



   113.03   License



   113.04   Fees



   113.05   Grounds for denial



   113.06   Prohibited sales



   113.07   Vending machine sales prohibited



   113.08   Self-service sales prohibited



   113.09   Licensee responsibility



   113.10   Compliance checks and inspections



   113.11   Unlawful acts; minors



   113.12   Violation; procedures



   113.13   Exceptions; defenses




Smoke-Free Workplace Regulations




   113.25   Findings of fact and purpose



   113.26   Definitions



   113.27   Prohibitions



   113.28   Responsibilities of proprietors and other persons in charge



   113.29   Private prohibitions



   113.30   Retaliation prohibited



   113.31   Employees rights preserved



   113.32   Other laws



   113.33   Violations



 



   113.99   Penalty



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 113.01  PURPOSE.



   The city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices and these sales, possessions and use are violations
of both state and federal laws; and because studies have shown that most
smokers begin smoking before they have reached the age of 18 years and that
those persons who reach the age of 18 years without having started smoking
are significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because smoking has been
shown to be the cause of several serious health problems which subsequently
place a financial burden on all levels of government; this chapter shall be
intended to regulate the sale, possession and use of tobacco, tobacco
products and tobacco-related devices for the purpose of enforcing and
furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious effects
associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices and to further the official public policy of the
state in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke.



(2004 Code, § 113.01)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.



   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The
singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice versa.



   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and
ensure that those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices are following and complying with the requirements of
this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized
by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices for
educational, research and training purposes as authorized by state and
federal laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of
government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state or local
laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices.



      INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or
tobacco product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED tobacco
and tobacco products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette
packs, single bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form and single cans or
other packaging of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging
containing more than a single pack or other container, as described in this
division (B), shall not be considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.



      LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or
individually packaged cigarette.



      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.



      MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18
years.



      MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a
truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address storefront or other permanent type of structure
authorized for sales transactions.



      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices are available for sale to the
general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not be limited to,
grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, bars and liquor outlets.



      SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other
consideration.



      SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices in any manner where any person may have
access to the tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices, without
the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee.
The assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of
the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device between the customer
and the licensee or employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include
vending machines.



      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.



      TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing
tobacco leaf, including but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco;
snuff; fine cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique;
granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and other smoking tobacco;
snuff flowers; cavendish; shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos;
refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds
and forms of tobacco leaf prepared in a manner so as to be suitable for
chewing, sniffing or smoking.



      TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe,
rolling papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used
in a manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or
tobacco products.



      VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic or other
type of device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related
devices upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly
into the machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco-related device.



(2004 Code, § 113.02)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 113.03  LICENSE.



   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall sell or offer to sell any
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related device without first having
obtained a license to do so from the city.



   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices shall be made on a form provided
by the city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant,
the applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone numbers,
the name of the business for which the license is sought and any additional
information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the city shall determine whether the applicant is eligible for a
license and then forward the application to the City Council for action at
its next regularly scheduled Council meeting. If the city shall determine
that an application is incomplete, it shall return the application to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.



   (C)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the
license or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary
to complete any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems
necessary. If the City Council shall approve the license, the city shall
issue the license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license,
notice of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the
applicant’s right to appeal the decision.



   (D)   Term. The term of all licenses issued hereunder shall be from
January 1 to the following December 31 or any part thereof.



   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this
subchapter may be revoked or suspended as provided in §§ 113.12 and 113.99
of this chapter.



   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this subchapter shall be
valid only on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the
person to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another
location or person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City
Council.



   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a
movable place of business. Only a fixed location business shall be eligible
to be licensed under this subchapter.



   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain
view of the general public on the licensed premises.



   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section
shall be handled in the same manner as the original application. The request
for a renewal shall be made at least 20 days, but no more than 60 days,
before the expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license
issued under this subchapter shall be considered a privilege and not an
absolute right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an
automatic renewal of the license.



(2004 Code, § 113.03)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 113.04  FEES.



   No license shall be issued under this subchapter until the appropriate
license fee shall be paid in full as specified by ordinance as adopted by the
City Council.



(2004 Code, § 113.04)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 113.05  GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.



   (A)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it
shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the
license under this section.



   (B)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or
renewal of a license under this subchapter; however, except as may otherwise
be provided by law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does
not mean that the city must deny the license:



      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;



      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five
years of any violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision
or other regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices;



      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of
the date of application;



      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required
on the application, or provides false or misleading information; or



      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or local
law, ordinance or other regulation, from holding this type of a license.



(2004 Code, § 113.05)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 113.06  PROHIBITED SALES.



   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to sell or
offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device:



   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;



   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may
otherwise be provided in this subchapter;



   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not
need to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed
premises in order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related
device and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco-related device between the licensee or the licensee’s
employee and the customer. Self-service sales are permitted within an
enclosed area where persons under the age of 18 years of age are not
permitted to enter and the enclosed area is under the continuous supervision
of an employee of the licensed premises. All sales must occur within the
enclosed area and access to the enclosed area must be by way of a fully
functioning door acting as an entry or exit to the enclosed area;



   (D)   By means of loosies, as defined in § 113.02 of this chapter;



   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna,
strychnos, cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or
controlled substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in
tobacco or added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; and/or



   (F)   By any other means, to any other person or in any other manner
or form prohibited by federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation.



(2004 Code, § 113.06)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
113.99



§ 113.07  VENDING MACHINE SALES PROHIBITED.



   It shall be unlawful for a person licensed under this subchapter to
allow the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by the
means of a vending machine.



(2004 Code, § 113.07)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
113.99



§ 113.08  SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.



   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this subchapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by any means
whereby the customer may have access to these items without having to request
the item from the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is
not physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related
device between the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices shall be stored behind
a counter or other area not accessible to customers.



(2004 Code, § 113.08)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
113.99



§ 113.09  LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY.



   All licensees under this subchapter shall be responsible for the
actions of their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an
item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing
in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also
subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this
subchapter, state or federal law or other applicable law or regulation.



(2004 Code, § 113.09)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 113.10  COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.



   (A)   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the local
law enforcement agencies or other authorized city official during business
hours. From time to time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct
compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent of their parents or
guardians, minors over the age of 15, but less than 18, years, to enter the
licensed premises to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices. Minors used for the purposes of compliance checks
shall not be guilty of the unlawful purchase or attempted purchase, nor the
unlawful possession of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices,
when these items are obtained or attempted to be obtained as a part of the
compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a
false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age and all minors
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the
minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce
any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal
laws for education, research or training purposes or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.



   (B)   Conducting compliance checks shall be the responsibility of
the city or county officials, where appropriate. For all compliance checks,
the supervising adult shall be a licensed peace officer. All minor
participants shall receive training prior to engaging in compliance check
activities. Transportation shall be provided by the supervising adult or
other adult employee of the city as designated by the Police Department.
Participating minors shall be considered “volunteers” subject to receipt
of a per diem payment in an amount established for other city boards and
commissions.



(2004 Code, § 113.10)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 113.11  UNLAWFUL ACTS; MINORS.



   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of
this subchapter.



   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for
any person to sell, give or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device to any minor.



   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this subchapter
for any minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product
or tobacco-related device. This division (B) shall not apply to minors
lawfully involved in a compliance check.



   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for
any minor to smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product
or tobacco-related device.



   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this
subchapter for any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise
obtain any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device and it shall be
a violation of this subchapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain
these items on behalf of a minor. It shall further be a violation for any
person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or
otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related
device. This division (D) shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a
compliance check.



   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this
subchapter for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the
use of a false form of identification, whether the identification is that of
another person or one on which the age of the person has been modified or
tampered with to represent an age older than the actual age of the person.



(2004 Code, § 113.11)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
113.99



§ 113.12  VIOLATION; PROCEDURES.



   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged
violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets
forth the alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of
his or her right to be heard on the accusation.



   (B)   Hearing. If a person accused of violating this subchapter so
requests, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be
published and provided to the accused violator.



   (C)   Hearing officer or panel. The City Attorney’s office or its
designee is hereby appointed as the hearing officer.



   (D)   Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation
of this subchapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer’s reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed
under § 113.99 of this chapter, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of
which shall be provided to the accused violator. Likewise, if the hearing
officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing
any penalty, these findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to the
acquitted accused violator.



   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer
shall be filed in the district court having jurisdiction of the city.



   (F)   Prosecution as a misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged
violation of this subchapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor
prosecution, no administrative penalty shall be imposed.



   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.



(2004 Code, § 113.12)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
113.99



§ 113.13  EXCEPTIONS; DEFENSES.



   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this subchapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.



(2004 Code, § 113.13)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998)



SMOKE-FREE WORKPLACE REGULATIONS



§ 113.25  FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.



   (A)   The City Council finds that:



      (1)   Tobacco smoke is a leading cause of disease in
non-smokers and a major source of indoor air pollution. Secondhand smoke
causes premature death and disease in children and in adults. Secondhand
smoke causes heart disease, lung cancer, respiratory infections, decreased
respiratory function and other health problems;



      (2)   In a 2006 report of the United States Surgeon General,
U.S. Surgeon General Carmona concluded that “exposure to secondhand smoke
remains an alarming public health hazard” and that “more than 126 million
non-smokers are still exposed”;



      (3)   Numerous nationally recognized medical and scientific
authorities, including the American Medical Association, the U.S. Surgeon
General, the National Institute on Occupational Safety and Health, the
National Cancer Institute, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National
Academy of Sciences, the National Toxicology Program and the World Health
Organization, have issued reports and health advisories addressing the
adverse effects of exposure to secondhand smoke;



      (4)   It is estimated between 24,300 and 71,900 low birth
weight or pre-term deliveries, about 202,300 episodes of childhood asthma
(new cases and exacerbations), between 150,000 and 300,000 cases of lower
respiratory illness in children, and about 789,700 cases of middle ear
infections in children occur in the United States each year as a result of
exposure to secondhand smoke;



      (5)   It is estimated that in the United States secondhand
smoke causes about 46,000 (a range of 22,700 to 69,600) deaths per year from
cardiac-related illnesses (including 700 to 1,240 deaths among Minnesotans)
and 3,400 deaths per year from lung cancer;



      (6)   There is no known safe level of exposure to secondhand
smoke; neither the separation of smokers and non-smokers nor the introduction
of new ventilation systems can eliminate the health hazards caused by
secondhand smoke. The scientific evidence indicates that there is no
risk-free level of exposure to secondhand smoke. Eliminating smoking in
indoor spaces protects non-smokers from exposure to secondhand smoke.
Separating smokers from non-smokers, cleaning the air or ventilating
buildings cannot eliminate exposure of non-smokers to secondhand smoke. The
only means of effectively eliminating health risks associated with indoor
exposure is to prohibit smoking;



      (7)   Objective evidence does not support fears that
restricting smoking in enclosed, indoor areas will harm a community’s
economy. On the contrary, many independent economic studies have shown that
the elimination of smoking has no material economic impact on a community.
These studies have drawn from the experience of hundreds of communities that
successfully eliminated smoking in workplaces and public places. Numerous
U.S. cities, counties and states and many nations have adopted laws ending
all smoking in bars, restaurants and other public places;



      (8)   Business owners have no legal or constitutional right to
expose their employees and customers to airborne toxins, such as those found
in secondhand smoke. On the contrary, employers have a common law duty to
provide workers with a workplace that is not unreasonably dangerous;



      (9)   Restricting smoke in public places and places of work
can help to model smoke-free behavior and to reduce youth exposure to
secondhand smoke; and



      (10)   Public health policies, ordinances and other laws are
part of the system by which people learn behaviors, guide youth, reduce
health threats and reinforce community norms that support the public’s
health.



   (B)   Accordingly, the City Council finds and declares that the
purpose of this subchapter is to:



      (1)   Protect vulnerable populations, including employees,
children, the elderly and those with chronic health conditions;



      (2)   Affirm that the right to breathe has priority over the
desire to smoke; and



      (3)   Protect the public health, welfare and safety by better
ensuring the ability of citizens to breathe safe and uncontaminated air.



(2004 Code, § 113.20)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)



§ 113.26  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment, however designated, engaged in
the preparation or serving of food or beverages for consumption either on or
off the premises, or anywhere consumption of food occurs on the premises.
This term includes any establishment, however designated, that has an on-sale
3.2% malt liquor license, an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, an on-sale
wine license and/or a strong beer liquor license issued by the state, the
municipality within which it is located, or the county.



   OTHER PERSON IN CHARGE. The agent of the proprietor authorized to
provide administrative direction to, and general supervision of, the
activities within a public place or place of work at any given time.



   PLACE OF WORK. Any enclosed, indoor location at which two or more
individuals perform any type of a service for consideration of payment under
any type of employment relationship including, but not limited to, an
employment relationship with or for a private corporation, partnership,
individual or government agency. This term includes any location where two or
more individuals gratuitously perform services for which individuals are
ordinarily paid. Examples of a PLACE OF WORK include, but are not limited to,
enclosed, indoor areas of an office, a factory, a hotel or motel (except
rented sleeping rooms), a vehicle, a warehouse and other locations where
services are performed under an employment relationship. Enclosed, indoor
areas of a private club and rooms used for private meetings or social
functions are PLACES OF WORK if two or more persons acting under an
employment relationship provide cleaning, catering, food or beverage service,
maintenance or other support services in such locations.



   PROPRIETOR. The party who ultimately controls, governs or directs the
activities within the public place or place of work, regardless of whether
the party is owner or lessee of the public place or place of work. PROPRIETOR
may apply to a corporation as well as an individual.



   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed, indoor area used by the general public or
serving as a place of work including, but not limited to, arenas,
auditoriums, bars, bowling alleys, bingo halls, commercial establishments,
educational facilities other than public schools, as defined in M.S. §
120A.05, Subd. 9, 11 and 13, as they may be amended from time to time,
hospitals, offices and other commercial establishments, pool halls, public
conveyances, restaurants, retail stores and common areas of rental apartment
buildings. PUBLIC PLACE also means the outdoor dining or bar area of food
establishments.



   SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling or combustion of any tobacco product,
weed, plant or any other similar article, including any cigar, cigarette,
pipe or any other similar article. SMOKING includes possessing or carrying a
lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other lighted, smoking equipment.
SMOKING does not include the use of tobacco by an enrolled member of a
federally-recognized Indian tribe as part of a traditional Indian spiritual
or cultural ceremony.



(2004 Code, § 113.21)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)



§ 113.27  PROHIBITIONS.



   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, smoking is
prohibited in the following locations:



      (1)   Public places and places of work, including outdoor
dining or bar area of food establishments;



      (2)   Within 15 feet of entrances, exits, open windows and
ventilation intakes of public places and places of work; and



      (3)   Within 15 feet of any outdoor dining or bar areas of
food establishments.



   (B)   The prohibitions of this section do not apply to the following
places or situations:



      (1)   Private residences;



      (2)   Motor vehicles in private use;



      (3)   Motor vehicles that serve as a place of work for no more
than one employee;



      (4)   Outdoor areas, except as provided in division (A) above;



      (5)   The use of tobacco by an enrolled member of a
federally-recognized Indian tribe as part of a traditional Indian spiritual
or cultural ceremony; and



      (6)   A hotel or motel sleeping room rented to one or more
guests.



(2004 Code, § 113.22)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)



§ 113.28  RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPRIETORS AND OTHER PERSONS IN CHARGE.



   The proprietor or other person in charge of a public place or place of
work where smoking is prohibited shall:



   (A)   Post “No Smoking” signs that comply with the Minnesota
Clean Air Act Rules, Minn. Rules part 4620.0500, as amended from time to time;



   (B)   Ensure that ashtrays, lighters, matchbooks or other smoking
paraphernalia are not provided in areas where smoking is prohibited;



   (C)   Place any receptacles for the deposit of extinguished
cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco and other smoking materials more than 15
feet from entrances, exits, open windows and ventilation intakes of public
places and places of work; and



   (D)   Ask any person who smokes in any area where smoking is
prohibited to refrain from smoking and, if the person does not refrain from
smoking after being asked to do so, ask the person to leave. If the offending
party refuses to leave, the proprietor or other person in charge shall handle
the situation consistent with lawful methods for handling other persons
acting in a disorderly manner or as a trespasser. Appropriate action shall
include calling the Police Department for assistance.



(2004 Code, § 113.23)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)



§ 113.29  PRIVATE PROHIBITIONS.



   Nothing in this subchapter prevents the proprietor or other person in
charge of any place, including, without limitation, any residence, motor
vehicle or outdoor space, from prohibiting smoking in any such place.



(2004 Code, § 113.24)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)



§ 113.30  RETALIATION PROHIBITED.



   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, penalize,
discriminate against or in any manner retaliate against any employee,
applicant for employment, or customer because the employee, applicant or
customer exercises any right to a smoke-free environment afforded by this
subchapter or other law.



(2004 Code, § 113.25)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)  Penalty, see § 113.99



§ 113.31  EMPLOYEES RIGHTS PRESERVED.



   An employee who consents to work in a setting where an employer allows
smoking does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee
may have against the employer or any other party.



(2004 Code, § 113.26)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)



§ 113.32  OTHER LAWS.



   This subchapter is intended to supplement the State Clean Air Act, M.S.
§§ 144.411 to 144.417, as they may be amended from time to time. Nothing in
this subchapter authorized smoking in any location where smoking is
prohibited or restricted by other laws.



(2004 Code, § 113.27)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)



§ 113.33  VIOLATIONS.



   (A)   Smoking where prohibited. It is a violation of this subchapter
for any person to smoke in an area where smoking is prohibited by this
subchapter.



   (B)   Proprietor or other person in charge. It is a violation of
this subchapter for the proprietor or other person in charge of any premises
subject to this subchapter to fail to comply with the requirements of §
113.28 of this chapter or to retaliate against an employee, applicant or
customer as prohibited by § 113.30 of this chapter.



   (C)   Enforcement. The provisions of this subchapter shall be
enforced by the Police Department or other enforcement agency designated by
the city.



   (D)   Injunctive relief. In addition to the penalties provided in §
113.99 of this chapter, the City Attorney may bring a civil action against
the proprietor or other person in charge of a public place or place of work
to enjoin repeated or continuing violations of this subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 113.28)  (Ord. 06-0449, passed 12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487,
passed 12-11-2007)  Penalty, see § 113.99



§ 113.99  PENALTY.



   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code
of ordinances.



   (B)   (1)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this
chapter, or whose employee shall have violated §§ 113.01 through 113.13 of
this chapter, shall be charged an administrative fine of $75 for a first
violation of §§ 113.01 through 113.13 of this chapter; $200 for a second
offense at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250 for
a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month period,
as well as a license suspension for not less than seven days.



      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors
regulated by division (B)(3) below, found to be in violation of §§ 113.01
through 113.13 of this chapter shall be charged an administrative fee of $50.



      (3)   Minors. A minor found in unlawful possession of, or who
unlawfully purchases or attempts to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices shall, if a first time offense, be referred to a
diversion program operated by appropriate city officials or, if a second or
subsequent offense, be petitioned or ticketed into juvenile court as a petty
offender and receive disposition as is authorized by law and appropriate for
petty offenders.



      (4)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of §§
113.01 through 113.13 of this chapter.



   (C)   (1)   A violation of any provisions of §§ 113.25 through
113.33 of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor for the first offense.
Any additional violation of §§ 113.25 through 113.33 of this chapter shall
be a misdemeanor. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.



      (2)   Violation of any provision of §§ 113.25 through 113.33
of this chapter by a licensee shall be adequate ground for the denial,
refusal to renew, suspension or revocation of any food, liquor or other
business license.



(2004 Code, § 113.99)  (Ord. 98-220, passed 4-14-1998; Ord. 06-0449, passed
12-26-2006; Ord. 07-0487, passed 12-11-2007; Ord. 12-700, passed 12-11-2012)



CHAPTER 114:  AMUSEMENTS



Section




Shows and Large Assemblies




   114.01   License required



   114.02   Maximum size



   114.03   Overnight camping prohibited; food preparation restricted



   114.04   Investigation fee



   114.05   Permitted area; factors



   114.06   Exemptions




Gambling




   114.20   Definitions



   114.21   Forms and eligibility; regulations apply



   114.22   Regulations; licensing requirements



   114.23   Approval of license application




Dances




   114.35   License required



   114.36   License fee



   114.37   License application



   114.38   Security




SHOWS AND LARGE ASSEMBLIES




§ 114.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to present any public show,
movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance or
exhibition without first having obtained a license therefor from the city. It
is also unlawful for any person to promote or sponsor a large assembly, for
any purpose and to which the public is invited, without first having obtained
a license therefor from the city.



   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      LARGE ASSEMBLY. A gathering, or projected gathering, of more than
300 persons at one time and at a single location.



(2004 Code, § 114.01)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 114.02  MAXIMUM SIZE.



   It is unlawful for any licensee to admit a larger number of people than
the maximum fixed by the Council at the time of issuance of the license.



(2004 Code, § 114.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 114.03  OVERNIGHT CAMPING PROHIBITED; FOOD PREPARATION RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit, or for any participant,
spectator or customer to camp or sleep overnight at the location of a large
assembly. It is also unlawful for any licensee to permit, or for any
participant, spectator or customer to prepare food on the premises, unless
that person is a concessionaire. This section does not apply to security
officers performing their duties as such.



(2004 Code, § 114.03)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 114.04  INVESTIGATION FEE.



   In addition to the license fee, the Council may fix an investigation
fee commensurate with the cost of the investigation.



(2004 Code, § 114.04)



§ 114.05  PERMITTED AREA; FACTORS.



   Large assemblies shall be permitted only after a finding by the Council
that the character of the proposed assembly is compatible with the character
of the surrounding neighborhood considering the problems of noise, lighting,
traffic, sanitation, congestion and other factors affecting the public
health, safety and welfare of the entire area, and compliance with this code
of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 114.05)



§ 114.06  EXEMPTIONS.



   The following activities and performances are exempt from compliance
with this subchapter:



   (A)   Performances presented in the local schools and colleges,
under the sponsorship of those schools and colleges, and primarily for the
students thereof only;



   (B)   Performances of athletic, musical or theatrical events
sponsored by local schools or colleges using student talent only;



   (C)   Any performance or event in, or sponsored by, the County
Agricultural Association, or bona fide local church and non-profit
organizations; provided that, the organization shall be incorporated; or



   (D)   Any performance or event in, or sponsored by, the city and the
Parks, Recreation and Forestry Department.



(2004 Code, § 114.06)




GAMBLING




§ 114.20  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   BOARD. The Charitable Gambling Control Board.



   LAWFUL GAMBLING. The operation, conduct or sale of bingo, raffles,
paddlewheels, tipboards and pull-tabs for a lawful purpose as herein defined.



   LAWFUL PURPOSE.



      (1)   One or more of the following:



         (a)   Benefitting persons by enhancing their opportunity
for religious or educational advancement, by relieving or protecting them
from disease, suffering or distress, by contributing to their physical
well-being, by assisting them in establishing themselves in life as worthy
and useful citizens or by increasing their comprehension of and devotion to
the principles upon which this nation was founded;



         (b)   Initiating, performing or fostering worthy public
works or enabling or furthering the erection or maintenance of public
structures;



         (c)   Lessening the burdens borne by government or
voluntarily supporting, augmenting or supplementing services which government
would normally render to the people; and/or



         (d)   Payment of taxes imposed under this subchapter,
and other taxes imposed by the state or the United States on receipts from
lawful gambling.



      (2)   LAWFUL PURPOSE does not include the erection,
acquisition, improvement, expansion, repair or maintenance of any real
property owned or leased by the organization, unless the Board specifically
authorizes the expenditures after finding that the property will be used
exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in divisions (1)(a)
through (1)(c) above.



   ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans’ or other non-profit
organization having its headquarters in the city.



   PROFIT. The gross receipts collected from lawful gambling, less
reasonable sums necessarily and actually expended for gambling supplies and
equipment, prizes, rent and utilities used during the gambling occasions,
compensation paid to members for conducting gambling, taxes imposed by
statute and maintenance of devices used in lawful gambling.



(2004 Code, § 114.20)



§ 114.21  FORMS AND ELIGIBILITY; REGULATIONS APPLY.



   All forms of legal gambling may be carried on, but only by an
organization, and subject to the provisions of this subchapter and M.S. §§
349.11 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 114.21)



§ 114.22  REGULATIONS; LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   Premises. If the organization owns or leases property for
organizational activities, which may or may not include lawful gambling
activities, a majority in value of that real property shall be situated
within the city. If the organization owns or leases no real property; except
that, it leases space on real property for lawful gambling activities only,
those premises shall be licensed under Ch. 112 of this code of ordinances for
on-sale of liquor. If the organization carries on lawful gambling upon leased
premises, the lease shall be in writing and for a term of at least one year,
and the rental payments shall not be based upon a percentage of receipts or
profits from that gambling.



   (B)   Expenditure of profits. All profits from gambling shall be
expended for a lawful purpose, and a majority of all these profits shall be
expended for:



      (1)   Persons who are residents of the city;



      (2)   Organizations which carry on all their activities within
the city;



      (3)   Supplementing the services of the government of the
city; or



      (4)   Improving, expanding, maintaining, repairing or
acquiring real property located within the city.



   (C)   Exemptions. Statutory exemptions from licensing by the Board,
whether by reason of the type of organization or number of lawful gambling
events or occasions, shall require a permit from the city; provided, however,
that, bingo conducted in a nursing home or a senior citizen housing project,
or by a senior citizen organization, conducted as provided and exempted by
statute, shall not require a permit.



   (D)   Limitations on licenses and permits. No organization shall
hold more than two licenses from the Board, or permits from the city, which
authorize lawful gambling at more than two locations, whether those locations
be within or without the city. Further, if a license from the Board is held
by an organization, no permit shall be issued to it by the city, and if a
permit from the city is held by an organization, any application to it for a
license from the Board shall be disapproved by the Council.



   (E)   Special bingo regulations. Bingo shall only be conducted by an
organization which has been in existence for at least three years and has at
least 30 active members, and on premises which it owns or leases.



(2004 Code, § 114.22)  (Ord. 90-22, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 90-29, passed
11-27-1990)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 114.23  APPROVAL OF LICENSE APPLICATION.



   Unless it finds that the applicant can comply or has complied with all
of the applicable regulations set forth in § 114.22 of this chapter, the
Council shall:



   (A)   Upon receipt from the Board of a notice of application for
issuance or renewal of a license, take action to disapprove the same and
inform the Board; or



   (B)   As to lawful gambling exempt from licensing, refuse to issue
or renew a permit.



(2004 Code, § 114.23)




DANCES




§ 114.35  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a public dancing
place, or to hold a public dance, without a license for that activity from
the city.



   (B)   In lieu of a per dance license for a specific dance, the City
Council may grant an annual license under terms and conditions as it deems
appropriate.



(2004 Code, § 114.35)  (Ord. 98-221, passed 4-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 114.36  LICENSE FEE.



   The license fee shall include the cost of providing attendance by a
designated security officer or officers when required by the Chief of Police.
The license fee shall be fixed and determined by the Council at the time the
application is approved, which fee shall also include the cost of any
investigation. An annual fee may be charged for the application processing
and investigation portion when license applicants contemplate numerous public
dances throughout a calendar year. Any portion or all of the license fee may
be waived if the Council finds that the applicant is a charitable, religious
or fraternal committee, association or organization operating on a purely
non-profit basis, and all dance proceeds other than direct operating expenses
are used for benevolent or charitable purposes.



(2004 Code, § 114.36)  (Ord. 98-221, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 114.37  LICENSE APPLICATION.



   An application for a dance license shall be filed with the city on
forms as are specified by the City Administrator and shall specify the names
and addresses of the person, persons, committee or organization that is to
hold the dance, the time and place thereof, the area of the dance floor, the
estimated number of dance patrons and other information as the city may
reasonably request.



(2004 Code, § 114.37)  (Ord. 98-221, passed 4-14-1998)



§ 114.38  SECURITY.



   (A)   The Chief of Police may designate a security officer or
officers to be present at a public dance during the entire time the dance is
underway.



   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.



      SECURITY OFFICER. Any person who is a full-time or part-time
peace officer, a reserve officer or a community service officer employed by
the city.



   (C)   The total costs of any security provided by the city must be
paid by the applicant, and the city may require an advanced deposit or a
corporate surety bond guaranteeing payment. Security officers designated by
the city shall have full authority to bar disruptive persons from the
premises and to otherwise engage in necessary policing activities including
any activity necessary to preserve the peace.



(2004 Code, § 114.38)  (Ord. 98-221, passed 4-14-1998)



CHAPTER 115:  VEHICLES FOR HIRE



Section




Taxicabs




   115.01   Definitions



   115.02   License required



   115.03   License issuance; display; vehicle markings



   115.04   Insurance required



   115.05   Rates



   115.06   Mechanical condition; certificate




TAXICABS




§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over a taxicab,
whether that person be the licensee or in the employ of the licensed operator.



   OPERATOR. A licensee owning or otherwise having control of one or more
taxicabs.



   TAXICAB. Any passenger conveyance being driven, on call or traversing a
scheduled or unscheduled route, for public use or hire upon payment of a fare
or at regular fare rates, but not including those as are designed for mass
transportation such as buses, trains or streetcars.



(2004 Code, § 115.01)



§ 115.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a taxicab without a
license therefor from the city.



(2004 Code, § 115.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 115.03  LICENSE ISSUANCE; DISPLAY; VEHICLE MARKINGS.



   All licenses shall be issued for specific conveyances, except as
otherwise herein provided. License tags, including number and year for which
issued, shall be plainly visible from the front of the conveyance. Both sides
of every licensed taxicab, when in use, shall be plainly and permanently
marked as such with a painted sign or appurtenances showing the full or
abbreviated name of the licensed operator.



(2004 Code, § 115.03)



§ 115.04  INSURANCE REQUIRED.



   Before a taxicab license is issued by the Council, and at all times
effective during the licensed period, the licensee shall have and maintain
public liability and bodily injury insurance in the amount of $100,000 for
any one person and $300,000 for two or more persons injured in any one
accident, as well as $10,000 property damage insurance.



(2004 Code, § 115.04)



§ 115.05  RATES.



   Each applicant shall file with the City Administrator, before a taxicab
license is issued or renewed, a schedule of proposed maximum rates to be
charged by him or her during the licensed period for which the application is
made. The schedule of proposed maximum rates, or a compromise schedule
thereof, shall be approved by the Council before granting the license. This
schedule shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the taxicab in full view
of passengers riding therein. Nothing herein shall prevent a taxicab licensee
from petitioning the Council for review of the rates during the licensed
period, and the Council may likewise consider that petition and make new
rates effective at any time. No taxicab licensee shall charge rates in excess
of maximum rates approved by the Council.



(2004 Code, § 115.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 115.06  MECHANICAL CONDITION; CERTIFICATE.



   Before a taxicab license is issued, the applicant shall present to the
Council a certificate signed by a competent and experienced mechanic showing
that the taxicab conveyance is in good mechanical condition, that it is
thoroughly safe for transportation of passengers and that it is in neat and
clean condition. A similar certificate may be required from time to time
during the licensed period. In lieu of this certificate, the Council may
accept the report of the Chief of Police relative thereto.



(2004 Code, § 115.06)



CHAPTER 116:  LODGING TAX



Section




General Procedures




   116.01   Definitions



   116.02   Imposition of tax




Collection and Payment Procedures




   116.15   Collection



   116.16   Exceptions and exemptions



   116.17   Advertising no tax prohibited



   116.18   Payment; return submission



   116.19   Examination of return; adjustments



   116.20   Refunds



   116.21   Failure to file return



   116.22   Delinquent payment; penalties




Administration and Enforcement




   116.35   Administration of tax



   116.36   Examination of records



   116.37   Violations



   116.38   Disposition of proceeds



   116.39   Appeals




GENERAL PROCEDURES




§ 116.01  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   LODGER. The person obtaining lodging from an operator.



   LODGING. The furnishing for a consideration of lodging by a hotel,
motel, bed and breakfast or public or private campground, except where that
LODGING shall be for a continuous period of 30 days or more to the same
lodger(s). The furnishing of rooms owned by religious, educational or
non-profit organizations for self-sponsored activities shall not constitute
LODGING for purposes of this program.



   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the lodging facility,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, licensee or any other
capacity.



   RENT. The total consideration valued in money charged for the lodging
whether paid in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for
services rendered in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room
charge itself.



(2004 Code, § 116.01)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.02  IMPOSITION OF TAX.



   Pursuant to M.S. § 469.190, as it may be amended from time to time, a
tax is imposed on the rent charged by an operator for providing lodging to
any person. A tax of 3% shall be imposed. The tax collected by the operator
shall be extinguished only by payment to the city. In no case shall the tax
imposed by this section upon an operator exceed the amount of tax which the
operator is authorized and required by this program to collect from a lodger.



(2004 Code, § 116.02)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989; Ord. 91-31, passed
4-9-1991; Ord. 95-132, passed 2-14-1995)  Penalty, see § 10.99




COLLECTION AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES




§ 116.15  COLLECTION.



   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this program at the time
the rent is paid. The tax collections shall be deemed to be held in trust by
the operator for the city. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from
the rent charged for the lodging and those persons paying the tax shall
receive a receipt of payment from the operator.



(2004 Code, § 116.15)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.16  EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.



   (A)   Exceptions. No tax shall be imposed on rent for lodging paid
by any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of
express provisions of federal law or international treaty.



   (B)   Exemptions. An exemption shall be granted to any person as to
whom or whose occupancy it is beyond the power of the city to tax. No
exemption shall be granted, except upon a claim therefor made at the time the
rent is collected, and this claim shall be made in writing and under penalty
of perjury on forms provided by the city. All these claims shall be forwarded
to the city when the returns and collections are submitted as required by
this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 116.16)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.17  ADVERTISING NO TAX PROHIBITED.



   It is unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.



(2004 Code, § 116.17)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 116.18  PAYMENT; RETURN SUBMISSION.



   (A)   The taxes imposed by this program shall be paid monthly by the
operator to the city not later than 20 days after the end of the month in
which the taxes were collected. At the time of payment, the operator shall
submit a return upon those forms and containing that information as the City
Finance Officer may require. The return shall contain the following minimum
information:



      (1)   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during
the period covered by the return;



      (2)   The total amount of exceptions and exemptions;



      (3)   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for
the period;



      (4)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of
his or her agent duly authorized in writing;



      (5)   The period covered by the return; and



      (6)   The amount of uncollectible rental charges subject to
the lodging tax.



   (B)   The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect
to any reporting period, the amount of taxes imposed by this program
previously paid as a result of any transaction, the consideration for which
became uncollectible during that reporting period, but only in proportion to
the portion of the consideration which became uncollectible.



(2004 Code, § 116.18)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.19  EXAMINATION OF RETURN; ADJUSTMENTS.



   The City Finance Officer shall, after a return is filed, examine the
same and make any investigation or examination of the records and accounts of
the person making the return deemed necessary for determining its
correctness. The tax computed on the basis of this examination shall be the
tax to be paid. If the tax due is found to be greater than that paid, the
excess shall be paid to the city within ten days after receipt of a notice
thereof given either personally or sent by registered mail to the address
shown on the return. If the tax paid is greater than the tax found to be due,
the excess shall be refunded to the person who paid the tax to the city
within ten days after determination of the refund.



(2004 Code, § 116.19)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.20  REFUNDS.



   Any person may apply to the City Finance Officer for a refund of taxes
paid in excess of the amount legally due for that period, provided that no
application for a refund shall be considered unless filed within one year
after that tax was paid, or within one year from the filing of the return,
whichever period is the longer. The Finance Officer shall examine the claim
and make and file written findings thereon denying or allowing the claim in
whole or in part and shall mail a notice thereof by registered mail to the
person at the address stated upon the return. If the claim is allowed in
whole or in part, the Finance Officer shall credit the amount of the
allowance against any taxes due under this program from the claimant, and the
balance of the allowance, if any, shall be paid by the Finance Officer to the
claimant.



(2004 Code, § 116.20)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.21  FAILURE TO FILE RETURN.



   (A)   If any operator required by this program to file a return
shall fail to do so within the time prescribed or shall make, willfully or
otherwise, an incorrect, false or fraudulent return, the operator shall, upon
written notice and demand, file that return or corrected return within five
days of receipt of written notice and shall at the same time pay any tax due
on the basis thereof. If the person shall fail to file the return or
corrected return, the City Finance Officer shall make a return or corrected
return for that person from that knowledge and information as the director
can obtain, and assess a tax on the basis thereof, which tax (less any
payments theretofore made on account of the tax for the taxable period
covered by the return) shall be paid upon within five days of the receipt of
written notice and demand for payment. Any thus described return or
assessment made by the Finance Officer shall be prima facie correct and
valid, and the person shall have the burden of establishing its incorrectness
or invalidity in any action or proceeding with respect thereto.



   (B)   If any portion of a tax imposed by this program, including
penalties thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be
paid, the city may institute legal action as may be necessary to recover the
amount due plus interest, penalties and the cost and disbursements of any
action.



   (C)   Upon a showing of good cause, the Finance Officer may grant an
operator one 30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make
payment of taxes as required by this chapter; provided that, interest during
this period of extension shall be added to the taxes due at the rate of 10%
per annum.



(2004 Code, § 116.21)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.22  DELINQUENT PAYMENT; PENALTIES.



   (A)   If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid within the time
herein specified for the payment, or any extension thereof, there shall be
added thereto a specific penalty equal to 10% of the amount remaining unpaid.



   (B)   In case of any failure to make and file a return within the
time prescribed by this chapter, unless it is shown that this failure is not
due to willful neglect, there shall be added to the tax, in addition to the
10% specific penalty provided in division (A) above, 10% if the failure is
for not more than 30 days, with an additional 5% for each additional 30 days
or fraction thereof during which failure continues, not exceeding 25% in the
aggregate. If the penalty as computed does not exceed $10, a minimum penalty
of $10 shall be assessed. The amount so added to any tax shall be collected
at the same time and in the same manner and as a part of the tax unless the
tax has been paid before the discovery of the negligence, in which case the
amount so added shall be collected in the same manner as the tax.



   (C)   If any person willfully fails to file any return or make any
payment required by this chapter, or willfully files a false or fraudulent
return or willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat this tax or
payment thereof, there shall also be imposed as a penalty an amount equal to
50% of any tax (less amounts paid on the basis of the false or fraudulent
return) found due for the period to which that return related. The penalty
imposed by this division (C) shall be collected as part of the tax, and shall
be in addition to any other penalties provided by this chapter.



   (D)   All payments received shall be credited first to penalties,
next to interest, and then to the tax due.



(2004 Code, § 116.22)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)  Penalty, see § 10.99




ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT




§ 116.35  ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.



   The City Finance Officer shall administer and enforce the assessment
and collection of the taxes imposed by this chapter. The director shall cause
to be prepared blank forms for the returns and other documents required by
this chapter and shall distribute the same throughout the city and furnish
them upon application; but failure to receive or secure them shall not
relieve any person from any obligation required under this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 116.35)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.36  EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.



   The City Finance Officer may examine the books, papers and records of
any operator in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no
return was made, to ascertain the tax as provided in this program. Every
operator is directed and required to give to the Finance Officer the means,
facilities and opportunity for the examinations and investigations as are
hereby authorized.



(2004 Code, § 116.36)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.37  VIOLATIONS.



   It is unlawful for any person to willfully fail to make a return
required by this program, or to fail to pay the tax after written demand for
payment, or to fail to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest
imposed by this chapter after written demand for payment, or to refuse to
permit the City Finance Officer to examine the books, records and papers
under his or her control or to willfully make an incomplete, false or
fraudulent return.



(2004 Code, § 116.37)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 116.38  DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.



   (A)   The 95% proceeds obtained from the collection of taxes
pursuant to this program shall be used in accordance with M.S. § 469.190, as
the same may be amended from time to time, to fund a local convention and
tourism bureau for the purpose of marketing and promoting the city as a
tourist and convention center. The city may retain a maximum of 5% for
administrative costs.



   (B)   The city by and through an agreement, entitled “Agreement
for the Establishment of a Convention and Visitors Bureau Between the City
and the Area Chamber of Commerce” (hereinafter “the agreement”), with
the Area Chamber of Commerce (hereinafter “Chamber of Commerce”) hereby
permits the Chamber of Commerce to create the Area Convention and Visitors
Bureau (hereinafter “the CVB”). The CVB will be funded by the tax set
forth herein and pursuant to M.S. § 469.190, as it may be amended from time
to time. The agreement sets forth the purpose and duties of the CVB and
provides for its internal structure. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement,
and specifically incorporated herein without limiting the effect of the
agreement, are the following terms:



      (1)   The CVB shall establish and maintain separate books and
records;



      (2)   The CVB shall establish separate bank accounts; and



      (3)   The CVB shall not commingle its funds with the Chamber
of Commerce or any other entity.



   (C)   Any and all employees of the Chamber of Commerce or the CVB,
or any other persons, while engaged in the performance of any service
required by the Chamber of Commerce, shall not be considered employees of the
city, and any and all claims that may or might arise under the Worker’s
Compensation Act of the state, being M.S. §§ 176.001 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time, on behalf of those employees or other persons
while so engaged, and any and all claims made by the third party as a
consequence of any act or omission on the part of the Chamber, or its agents
or employees or other persons while so engaged in any of the services
provided to be rendered herein, shall in no way be the obligation or the
responsibility of the city. In connection therewith, the Chamber of Commerce
hereby agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless, defend the city and all
its agents and employees thereof, from any and all claims, demands, actions
or causes of action of whatever nature or character arising out of or by
reason of the execution or the performances of the services provided in
accordance with this agreement, excepting therefrom City Administrator duties
and city duties relating to the collection of taxes.



   (D)   The annual budget submitted by the CVB to the Council for its
approval shall be approved or disapproved in total.



(2004 Code, § 116.38)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



§ 116.39  APPEALS.



   (A)   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination
made by the City Finance Officer under this chapter may file a petition for
review of that notice, order or determination, detailing the operator’s
reasons for contesting the notice, order or determination. The petition shall
contain the name of the petitioner, the petitioner’s address and the
location of the lodging subject to the order, notice or determination.



   (B)   The petition for review shall be filed with the City
Administrator within ten days after the notice, order or determination for
which review is sought has been mailed or served upon the person requesting
review.



   (C)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Administrator, or his
or her designee, shall set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at
least five days’ prior written notice of the date, time and place of the
hearing.



   (D)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity
to show cause why the notice, order or determination should be modified or
withdrawn. The petitioner may be represented by counsel of the petitioner’s
choosing at the petitioner’s own expense.



   (E)   Any disputes shall be conducted in accordance with principles
and rules of the American Arbitration Association.



   (F)   The hearing examiner conducting the hearing shall make written
findings of fact and conclusions based upon the applicable provisions of this
chapter and the evidence presented. The person conducting the hearing may
affirm, reverse or modify the notice, order or determination made by the City
Finance Officer.



   (G)   Any decision rendered by the hearing examiner pursuant to this
section may be appealed to the Council. A petitioner seeking to appeal a
decision must file a written notice of appeal with the City Administrator
within ten days after the decision has been mailed to the petitioner. The
matter will thereupon be placed on the Council agenda as soon as practicable.
The Council shall then review the findings of fact and conclusions to
determine whether they were correct. Upon a determination by the Council that
findings and conclusions were incorrect, the Council may modify, reverse or
affirm the decision of the hearing examiner or his or her designee upon the
same standards as set forth above in division (F) above.



(2004 Code, § 116.39)  (Ord. 801, passed 2-22-1989)



CHAPTER 117:  PUBLIC SERVICE PROVIDERS



Section




Snow Removers




   117.01   Snow removers; licensing




Garbage and Refuse Haulers




   117.15   Definitions



   117.16   License required



   117.17   Exception



   117.18   License procedures and requirements



   117.19   Recyclable materials; collection



   117.20   Prohibited materials



   117.21   License revocation



   117.22   Information to be supplied by licensee



   117.23   Violations




Cable Television; Customer Service




   117.35   Definitions



   117.36   Office hours; telephone availability; responsiveness



   117.37   Installations, outages and service calls



   117.38   Communication with subscribers



   117.39   Late fees



   117.40   Complaints



   117.41   Violations




SNOW REMOVERS




§ 117.01  SNOW REMOVERS; LICENSING.



   (A)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in
snow removal, for hire and on the privately owned premises of another, using
any type of equipment upon which there is a power unit exceeding 12
horsepower, without a license therefor from the city.



   (B)   License regulations. The failure of any licensee to strictly
comply with all provisions of this code of ordinances relating to snow
removal shall be grounds for revocation.



(2004 Code, § 117.01)  Penalty, see § 10.99




GARBAGE AND REFUSE HAULERS




§ 117.15  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   COLLECTION. The aggregation of waste from the place at which it was
generated and including all activities up to the time when the waste is
delivered to a waste facility.



   CORRUGATED CARDBOARD. Heavy paper with alternating ridges and grooves
for use in packing or boxing materials.



   DESIGNATED LANDFILL. A landfill designated by the City Council for the
city. In the absence of any designation by the City Council, a DESIGNATED
LANDFILL includes any sanitary landfill duly licensed and authorized by the
state which can legally accept garbage and other refuse from the city.



   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses
but excluding human excreta, sewage and other water-carried wastes. GARBAGE
includes organic refuse resulting from the storage or preparation of food or
decay or spoiled food from any source.



   GENERATION. The act or process of producing waste as defined in M.S. §
115A.03(11), as it may be amended from time to time.



   GENERATOR. Any person who generates waste as defined in M.S. §
115A.03(12), as it may be amended from time to time.



   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other solid waste from
residential, commercial, industrial and community activities which is
generated and collected in the aggregate, but does not include auto hulks,
street sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludge, tree and
agricultural wastes, tires and other materials collected, processed and
disposed of in separate waste streams.



   ORGANIC MATERIAL. Material consisting of grass clippings, leaves and
other forms of organic garden waste.



   OTHER REFUSE. Ashes, crockery, boxes and rags and similar
non-putrescible waste, including glass, cans, paper and other recyclable
materials, sand, earth, brick, stone, concrete, trees, tree branches and wood
and construction materials.



   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Materials that are separated from mixed municipal
solid waste by the generator and which are intended for transportation,
processing and remanufacture or reuse. RECYCLABLE MATERIALS may be further
defined, from time to time, by resolution of the City Council.



   RECYCLING. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials
and reusing the materials in their original form or using them in
manufacturing processes.



   RESIDENTIAL. Shall consist of all buildings or structures containing
four or less dwelling units.



(2004 Code, § 117.15)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)



§ 117.16  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the collecting, hauling
or conveying of garbage, other refuse, mixed municipal solid waste or
recyclable materials in the city unless a license has been applied for in the
manner specified by this subchapter and approved by the City Council.



(2004 Code, § 117.16)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 117.17  EXCEPTION.



   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent persons from hauling
garbage or other refuse from their own business properties; provided, the
following rules are observed:



      (1)   All garbage is hauled in containers that are water-tight
on all sides and the bottom and with tight-fitting covers on top;



      (2)   All other refuse is hauled in vehicles with leak-proof
bodies and completely covered or enclosed by canvas or other means or
material so as to completely eliminate the possibility of loss of cargo; and



      (3)   All garbage and other refuse shall be dumped or unloaded
only at the designated sanitary landfill.



   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



         INCIDENTAL HAULING. The hauling of garbage, other refuse or
mixed municipal solid waste four times or less per year.



      (2)   Incidental hauling shall be permitted even though the
requirements of this section are not met so long as the garbage, other refuse
or mixed municipal solid waste is transported to the designated sanitary
landfill in a fashion so as to not create a nuisance or create a threat to
the health and safety of the residents of the city.



(2004 Code, § 117.17)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)



§ 117.18  LICENSE PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   Application for a hauler license shall be in writing and on a
form as the City Council may specify from time to time, by ordinance, and
shall be filed with the City Administrator.



   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a license fee the
amount of which shall be established by ordinance of the City Council.



   (C)   (1)   All hauler licenses shall expire on December 31 of
the effective year.



      (2)   Licenses shall not be transferable from one person, firm
or corporation to another person, firm or corporation.



   (D)   The applicant shall file with the City Administrator, at the
time of the filing of the application for a license, proof of public
liability insurance on all vehicles in at least the sum of $250,000 for the
injury of one person, $500,000 for the injury of two or more persons in the
same accident and $100,000 for property damages.



   (E)   All these licenses shall be granted only upon condition that
the licensee have water-tight, packer-type vehicles in good condition to
prevent loss in transit of liquid or solid cargo, that the vehicle be kept
clean and free from offensive odors, that the vehicle not be allowed to stand
longer than reasonably necessary to collect garbage or refuse and that the
same be dumped or unloaded only at the designated sanitary landfill, and
strictly in accordance with regulations related thereto.



   (F)   The City Council, in the interest of maintaining health and
sanitary conditions in the city, hereby reserves the right to specify and
assign certain areas to all licensees and to limit the number of licenses
issued. The City Council also reserves the right to limit hauling in
residential areas to a single hauler or several haulers either by
negotiation, by organized collection pursuant to M.S. § 115A.94, as it may
be amended from time to time, or otherwise.



(2004 Code, § 117.18)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)



§ 117.19  RECYCLABLE MATERIALS; COLLECTION.



   Collections of recyclable materials shall be made under terms and at
those times and frequencies as shall be designated from time to time by the
City Council. The City Council reserves the right to require licensed haulers
to also haul and appropriately dispose of recyclable materials. In that
event, licensed haulers must certify that the materials collected for
recycling are delivered to facilities which reprocess the collected materials
into recycled products.



(2004 Code, § 117.19)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)



§ 117.20  PROHIBITED MATERIALS.



   The City Council reserves the right to prohibit the collection of
certain materials, including but not limited to grass clippings, yard waste,
hazardous waste and recyclable materials.



(2004 Code, § 117.20)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)



§ 117.21  LICENSE REVOCATION.



   (A)   The City Council, in its sole discretion, may suspend or
revoke the license issued under this subchapter for violations of the
provisions of this subchapter by the licensee, or for violations of other
state or federal laws and regulations, or upon a finding that the licensee
failed to cooperate fully with police in the investigation of alleged illegal
acts occurring in connection with the hauling of garbage, refuse or other
mixed municipal solid waste or that the activities of the licensee created a
serious danger to public health, safety or welfare.



   (B)   The revocation shall not take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the City Council.



      (1)   This hearing shall be called by the Council upon written
notice to the licensee served in person or by certified mail not less than
ten days prior to the hearing date, stating the time, place and purpose of
the hearing.



      (2)   The procedure to be followed at the hearing shall be
determined by the City Council in its sole discretion.



(2004 Code, § 117.21)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)



§ 117.22  INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED BY LICENSEE.



   For purposes of determining that all businesses and commercial
establishments have made provision for the proper disposal of garbage, other
refuse and mixed municipal solid waste by a licensed hauler, each licensed
hauler shall file with the City Administrator, on a monthly basis, but in any
event no later than the tenth of each month, a list of the names and
addresses of customers serviced by the licensed hauler.



(2004 Code, § 117.22)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)



§ 117.23  VIOLATIONS.



   Any violation of this subchapter shall, upon conviction, constitute a
misdemeanor.



(2004 Code, § 117.23)  (Ord. 92-57, passed 5-20-1992)




CABLE TELEVISION; CUSTOMER SERVICE




§ 117.35  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. The hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. In all
cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS must include some evening hours at least one
night per week and/or some weekend hours.



   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. The service conditions which are within
the control of the cable operator. Conditions which are not within the
control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to, natural
disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and
severe or unusual weather conditions. Conditions which are within the control
of the cable operator include, but are not limited to, special promotions,
pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods
and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.



   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels, for longer than a momentary period.



(2004 Code, § 117.35)  (Ord. 98-225, passed 6-9-1998)



§ 117.36  OFFICE HOURS; TELEPHONE AVAILABILITY; RESPONSIVENESS.



   (A)   Telephone availability. The cable operator will maintain a
local, toll-free or collect call telephone access line which will be
available to its subscribers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The cable
operator will ensure that:



      (1)   Trained company representatives will be available to
respond to customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours; and



      (2)   After normal business hours, the access line will be
answered by a service or an automated response system, including an answering
machine. Further, inquiries received after normal business hours must be
responded to by a trained company representative on the next business day.



   (B)   Telephone answer time. Under normal operating conditions,
telephone answer time by a customer representative, including wait time,
shall not exceed 30 seconds when the connection is made. If the call needs to
be transferred, transfer time shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards
shall be met no less than 90% of the time under normal operating conditions,
measured on a quarterly basis.



   (C)   Busy signals. Under normal operating conditions, the customer
will receive a busy signal less than 3% of the time.



   (D)   Customer service center. Customer service center and bill
payment locations will be provided consistent with the cable franchise
obligations and will be open at least during normal business hours and will
be conveniently located.



   (E)   Compliance. The cable operator will provide detailed
compliance reports on a quarterly basis with respect to the objectively
measurable standards herein. These reports shall be of a form and substance
acceptable to the city.



(2004 Code, § 117.36)  (Ord. 98-225, passed 6-9-1998)



§ 117.37  INSTALLATIONS, OUTAGES AND SERVICE CALLS.



   (A)   Installation, outage and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following standards will be met no less than 95% of
the time measured on a quarterly basis:



      (1)   Standard installations will be performed within seven
business days after an order has been placed;



      (2)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the operator,
the cable operator will begin working on service interruptions promptly and
in no event later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The
cable operator must begin actions to correct other service problems the next
business day after notification of the service problem;



      (3)   The “appointment window” alternatives for
installations, service calls and other installation activities will be either
a specific time or, at a maximum, a four-hour time block during normal
business hours. The operator may schedule service calls and other
installation activities outside of normal business hours for the express
convenience of the customer;



      (4)   An operator may not cancel an appointment with a
customer after the close of business on the business day prior to the
scheduled appointment; and



      (5)   If a cable operator representative is running late for
an appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment
as scheduled, the customer will be contacted. The appointment will be
rescheduled, as necessary, at a time which is convenient for the customer.



   (B)   Compliance. The cable operator will provide detailed
compliance records on a quarterly basis with respect to the objectively
measurable standards herein. These reports shall be of a form and substance
acceptable to the city.



(2004 Code, § 117.37)  (Ord. 98-225, passed 6-9-1998)



§ 117.38  COMMUNICATION WITH SUBSCRIBERS.



   (A)   Notifications to subscribers.



      (1)   The cable operator shall provide written information on
each of the following areas at the time of installation of service, at least
annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request:



         (a)   A list of the products and services offered;



         (b)   A list of the prices and options for programming
services and all conditions of subscription to programming and other services;



         (c)   Installation and service maintenance policies;



         (d)   Instructions on how to use the cable service;



         (e)   A list of the channel positions of programming
carried on the system; and



         (f)   A detailed statement regarding billing and
complaint procedures, including the address and telephone number of the local
franchise authority.



      (2)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates,
programming services, channel positions or any significant changes in the
information required to be provided in division (A)(1) above as soon as
possible in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of 30 days
in advance of these changes if the change is within the control of the cable
operator. Notwithstanding, a cable operator shall not be required to provide
prior notice of any rate change that is the result of a regulatory fee,
franchise fee or any other fee, tax, assessment or charge of any kind imposed
by any federal agency, state or franchising authority on the transaction
between the operator and the subscriber.



   (B)   Billing. Bills will be clear, concise and understandable.
Bills must be fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited
to, basic and premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also
clearly delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional
charges, rebates and credits. In case of a billing dispute, the cable
operator must respond to a written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.



   (C)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later
than either:



      (1)   The customer’s next billing cycle following resolution
of the request or 30 days, whichever is earlier; or



      (2)   The return of the equipment supplied by the cable
operator if service is terminated.



   (D)   Credits. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer’s next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.



(2004 Code, § 117.38)  (Ord. 98-225, passed 6-9-1998)



§ 117.39  LATE FEES.



   Fees for the late payment of bills shall not accrue until the normal
billing cutoff for the next month’s service, and in no event less than one
month after the unpaid bill in question was sent to the subscriber. Customer
service center and bill payment locations will be open at least during normal
business hours. Payments at the cable operator’s drop-box location shall be
deemed received on the date those payments are picked up by the cable
operator, which shall occur within 24 hours after every due date. The cable
operator shall continue to provide a grace period of at least five days after
each due date. Late fees shall not exceed the cable operator’s actual and
demonstrable costs associated with collection of late payments in the city as
may be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.



(2004 Code, § 117.39)  (Ord. 98-225, passed 6-9-1998)



§ 117.40  COMPLAINTS.



   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, the cable operator
shall prepare and maintain complete written records of all complaints
received and the resolution of those complaints, including the date of
resolution of the complaints. These written records shall be on file at the
office of the cable operator. The cable operator shall provide the city with
a written summary of all complaints received and their resolution on a
quarterly basis. The city may direct the form and the substance of the
quarterly reports.



(2004 Code, § 117.40)  (Ord. 98-225, passed 6-9-1998)



§ 117.41  VIOLATIONS.



   Any violation of the requirements in this subchapter shall constitute a
violation of the city’s cable franchise ordinance(s), and shall subject the
cable operator to all remedies, penalties and sanctions provided for therein.



(2004 Code, § 117.41)  (Ord. 98-225, passed 6-9-1998)



CHAPTER 118:  TATTOOING



Section



   118.01   Definition



   118.02   License required



   118.03   License application



   118.04   License fee



   118.05   License term



   118.06   Tattooing of minors restricted



   118.07   Health and sanitary requirements



§ 118.01  DEFINITION.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   TATTOOING. The marking of the skin of a person by insertion of
permanent colors by introducing them through puncture of the skin.



(2004 Code, § 118.01)  (Ord. 94-104, passed 3-8-1994)



§ 118.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   No person shall conduct any establishment where tattooing is done, nor
engage in the act of tattooing, without being licensed under this chapter. No
person shall engage in the practice of tattooing at any place other than the
place or location named or described in the license granted by the city. No
person shall be granted a license under this chapter who is not free from
communicable disease.



(2004 Code, § 118.02)  (Ord. 94-104, passed 3-8-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 118.03  LICENSE APPLICATION.



   Any person desiring a license under this chapter shall file with the
City Administrator, on a form provided by the city, a written application
signed by the applicant and containing the name of the applicant, if an
individual, the names of co-partners, if a partnership and, if a corporation,
the names of the principal officers of the corporation, together with a brief
description of the place or location at which the business is to be
conducted, along with other information routinely required by the City
Administrator in connection with applications for business licenses.



(2004 Code, § 118.03)  (Ord. 94-104, passed 3-8-1994)



§ 118.04  LICENSE FEE.



   The annual fee for a license to engage in the practice of tattooing
shall be set by ordinance of the City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 118.04)  (Ord. 94-104, passed 3-8-1994)



§ 118.05  LICENSE TERM.



   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on December 31 of
the licensing year.



(2004 Code, § 118.05)  (Ord. 94-104, passed 3-8-1994)



§ 118.06  TATTOOING OF MINORS RESTRICTED.



   No technician shall tattoo any individual under the age of 18
regardless of parental consent.



Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 118.07  HEALTH AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.



   No person shall engage in the practice of tattooing at any place within
the city without complying with the following regulations.



   (A)   Every place where tattooing is done shall be equipped with a
sewer and water connected toilet and hand basin or sink. The hand basin or
sink shall be supplied with hot and cold running water under pressure, and
shall be maintained in good working order at all times; it shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.



   (B)   No person having any skin infection or other disease of the
skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed.



   (C)   All equipment, including needles, knell bars, tubes, pigment
and receptacles, stencils, razors and razor blades, shall be kept in a
dust-proof glass case when not in use.



   (D)   All needles and operating instruments shall be individually
pre-packaged, pre-sterilized and disposable. No such equipment shall be used
on more than one customer, but shall be discarded in a safe and sanitary
manner after its first use.



   (E)   All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with
tattooing of any person shall be individually pre-packaged, pre-sterilized
and disposable.



   (F)   Every person who practices tattooing shall wear clean, white
colored, washable outer garments when engaged in the practice of tattooing.



   (G)   Every person who practices tattooing shall wash his or her
hands thoroughly with soap and water and then dry them in a clean, unused
towel before and after each tattooing. The customer’s skin shall also be
thoroughly cleansed with soap and water and disinfected by an antiseptic
solution before the use or application of any tattooing instrument or
equipment.



   (H)   Whenever it is necessary to shave the skin, a safety razor
must be used. A new blade must be used for each customer. The razor shall be
cleaned with soap and water after each use and shall be kept in a closed case
when not in use. All electric hair clippers shall be sanitized by a method
approved by the Commissioner of Health.



   (I)   Pigments used in tattooing shall be sterile and free from
bacterial and noxious agents and substances. The pigments used from stock
solutions for each customer shall be placed in a single service receptacle
and this receptacle and remaining solution shall be discarded in a safe and
sanitary manner after use on each customer.



   (J)   Every person to be tattooed shall be asked whether he or she
has had viral hepatitis in the preceding six months. No person suspected of
presently having viral hepatitis or having had viral hepatitis within the
last six months shall be tattooed without the written consent of a licensed
physician.



   (K)   No place used for the practice of tattooing shall be used or
occupied for living or sleeping quarters or for any purpose other than
tattooing.



   (L)   There shall be a minimum of 150 square feet of floor space at
the place where the practice of tattooing is conducted and the place shall be
adequately ventilated and lighted. All tables, chairs and operating furniture
shall be constructed of metal with white enamel or porcelain finish or
stainless steel, and shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.



   (M)   No person shall practice tattooing while under the influence
of alcohol or drugs. No customer shall be tattooed while under the influence
of alcohol or drugs.



   (N)   A person tattooed shall be provided with written instructions
on the approved care of the tattoo during the healing process.



(2004 Code, § 118.07)  (Ord. 94-104, passed 3-8-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99



CHAPTER 119:  MASSAGE SERVICES



Section



   119.01   Definition



   119.02   License required



   119.03   License application; renewal



   119.04   Exceptions



   119.05   Restrictions and regulations



   119.06   Resident manager or agent



   119.07   Insurance required



§ 119.01  DEFINITION.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   MASSAGE. The practice of rubbing, stroking, kneading or rolling the
body with the hands or any instrument for the exclusive purpose of
relaxation, physical fitness or beautification.



(2004 Code, § 119.01)  (Ord. 96-165, passed 3-26-1996)



§ 119.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of keeping,
conducting or operating any massage facility which is open to the public or
for which any charge or fee is made or any money or thing of value is
solicited or received without a license from the city.



(2004 Code, § 119.02)  (Ord. 96-165, passed 3-26-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 119.03  LICENSE APPLICATION; RENEWAL.



   All initial applications shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
investigation fee in the amount set forth in the fee schedule adopted and
amended by the City Council from time to time. Each application shall contain
the names and addresses of the owners, lessees and operators of the proposed
massage facility together with a description and location of the premises.
The application shall include information as to any conviction of any crime
or offense committed by anyone listed on the application together with other
information as the Council may, from time to time, in its sole discretion,
require. All applications by corporations shall include the names and
addresses of all persons having a beneficial interest in the corporation.
Prior to consideration of the application by the Council, an investigation
shall be made by the Building Official of all premises to be licensed and by
the Police Department of all persons listed on the license application. Each
license shall expire on December 31 of each year. Licenses must be renewed
annually. The renewal application shall be accompanied by an annual fee as
set forth in the fee schedule adopted and amended by the City Council from
time to time. For a license renewal, an applicant must provide any
information that is different from the initial application provided by the
applicant. The Building Official or the Police Department may conduct an
investigation prior to any renewal.



(2004 Code, § 119.03)  (Ord. 96-165, passed 3-26-1996)



§ 119.04  EXCEPTIONS.



   This chapter shall not apply to the following:



   (A)   A healthcare facility licensed by the state;



   (B)   A healthcare facility owned by the state or any of its
agencies;



   (C)   A medical clinic or hospital, so long as massage services are
performed by individuals working under the direction and supervision of a
physician, chiropractor, osteopath, podiatrist or nurse;



   (D)   A beauty parlor or barber shop, so long as the massage is
performed by a beautician or barber and treatment is limited to the scalp,
face and neck; or



   (E)   An athletic facility, so long as the massage is performed by a
physical therapist or trainer.



(2004 Code, § 119.04)  (Ord. 96-165, passed 3-26-1996)



§ 119.05  RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.



   A license may be revoked, suspended or not renewed by the city upon a
showing that the licensee, its owners, managers, employees or agents have
violated any of the terms and conditions of this code of ordinances,
including, but not limited to, any of the following restrictions and
regulations.



   (A)   Licenses are granted only for operation upon fixed premises
located in commercial districts of the city as established by the zoning laws
of the city.



   (B)   Licenses are granted only upon a showing of compliance with
sanitation laws and Building Code regulations.



   (C)   No 3.2% malt liquor, liquor, narcotic drug or controlled
substances shall be permitted on the licensed premises.



   (D)   No license will be granted or renewed if granting a license
would be inconsistent with the comprehensive development plans of the city or
would otherwise have a detrimental effect upon the property or properties in
the vicinity of the proposed location.



   (E)   False, fraudulent or deceptive statements contained in the
application are grounds for denial or revocation of a license.



   (F)   No applicant or any employee or proposed employee shall have
been convicted or pled guilty within the previous five years of a violation
of this chapter or of any law prohibiting prostitution, pandering, keeping a
disorderly house, criminal sexual conduct, any sex crime under M.S. Ch. 609,
as it may be amended from time to time, or a crime involving moral turpitude.
The City Council, in its sole discretion, may consider a conviction of other
offenses to be grounds for the denial or revocation of a license.



   (G)   No applicant or any employee or proposed employee may be under
18 years of age.



   (H)   The licensee shall furnish the Police Department with a list
of current employees, specifying names, addresses and which employees are
practicing massage as part of their duties. The Police Department shall be
advised of any changes in the list.



   (I)   The licensee shall permit and allow the inspection of the
premises during normal business hours by the Building Official, police
officers and health officials.



   (J)   Upon the request of any police officer, any person employed in
any licensed premises shall provide identification indicating his or her
correct legal name and correct address.



(2004 Code, § 119.05)  (Ord. 96-165, passed 3-26-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 119.06  RESIDENT MANAGER OR AGENT.



   Prior to issuance of a license under this chapter to an individual who
is a non-resident of the city, to more than one individual or to a
corporation, partnership or association, the applicant shall designate in
writing a natural person who is a resident of the city to be manager and in
charge of the business and upon whom service of process may be made.



(2004 Code, § 119.06)  (Ord. 96-165, passed 3-26-1996)



§ 119.07  INSURANCE REQUIRED.



   Each applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the
city a public liability insurance policy or certificate of insurance from a
company authorized to do business in the state, insuring the applicant
against any and all loss arising out of the use, operation or maintenance of
the massage facility. The policy of insurance shall be in limits of not less
than the statutory limits of liability for a municipality, and failure to
keep in full force and effect the insurance required herein is grounds for
revocation.



(2004 Code, § 119.07)  (Ord. 96-165, passed 3-26-1996)



CHAPTER 120:  PAWNBROKERS



Section




General Provisions




   120.01   Purpose



   120.02   Definitions




Licensing




   120.15   License required; exemption



   120.16   Ineligible persons



   120.17   Ineligible places



   120.18   License application



   120.19   Fees



   120.20   Bond required



   120.21   License issuance



   120.22   License suspension or revocation




Rules and Regulations




   120.35   Licensee responsibility; conduct



   120.36   License display required



   120.37   Records required



   120.38   Inspection of records



   120.39   Property received; receipts



   120.40   Daily reports to Police Department



   120.41   Police restrictions on sale or redemption/order to hold
property



   120.42   Inspection of items



   120.43   Gambling prohibited



   120.44   Storage; oversized items



   120.45   Off-site sales and storage



   120.46   Restrictions on weapons



   120.47   Redemption period



   120.48   Holding period



   120.49   Label required



   120.50   Prohibited acts



   120.51   Business at only one place



   120.52   Effective date



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 120.01  PURPOSE.



   (A)   The City Council finds that pawnbrokers potentially provide an
opportunity for the commission and concealment of crimes. These businesses
have the ability to receive and transfer stolen property easily and quickly.
The City Council also finds that consumer protection regulation is warranted
in transactions involving pawnbrokers.



   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent pawnbroking
businesses from being used as facilities for commission of crimes and to
ensure that these businesses comply with basic consumer protection standards,
thereby protecting the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.



   (C)   To help the Police Department better regulate current and
future pawn businesses, decrease and stabilize costs associated with the
regulation of the pawn industry, and increase identification of criminal
activities in the pawn industry through the timely collection and sharing of
pawn transaction information, this chapter also implements and establishes
the use of the Automated Pawn System (APS).



(2004 Code, § 120.01)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.02  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   BILLABLE TRANSACTION. Every reportable transaction conducted by a
pawnbroker is a billable transaction except renewals, redemptions or
extensions of existing pawns on items previously reported and continuously in
the licensee’s possession, voided transactions and confiscations.



   LICENSE FEES. The annual license fees for licenses under this chapter
shall be as follows.



      (1)   The billable transaction license fee shall reflect the
cost of processing transactions and other related regulatory expenses as
determined by the City Council and shall be reviewed and adjusted, if
necessary, annually. Licensees shall be notified in writing 30 days before
any adjustment is implemented.



      (2)   Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and
are due and payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation of this
chapter.



   MINOR. Any natural person under the age of 18 years.



   OVERSIZED ITEMS. Large items such as cars, boats and other motorized
vehicles and motorized equipment.



   PAWNBROKER. Any natural person, partnership or corporation, whether as
principal or agent or employee thereof, who loans money on deposit or pledge
of personal property or other valuable thing; who deals in the purchasing of
personal property or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same
back again at a stipulated price; or who loans money secured by chattel
mortgage on personal property, taking possession of the property or any part
thereof so mortgaged. To the extent that a PAWNBROKER business includes
buying personal property previously used, rented or leased, the provisions of
this chapter shall be applicable. Any bank, savings and loan association or
credit union shall not be deemed a PAWNBROKER for purposes of this chapter.



   PERSON. One or more natural persons; a partnership, including a limited
partnership; a corporation, including a foreign, domestic or non-profit
corporation; a trust; a political subdivision of the state; or any other
business organization.



   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in
which merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade,
or in which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by their point-of-sale
software, or an item is confiscated by law enforcement is reportable, except:



      (1)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used
merchandise from a merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established
permanent place of business and the retail sale of said merchandise;
provided, the pawnbroker must maintain a record of such purchase or
consignment which describes each item and must mark each item in a manner
which relates it to that transaction record; or



      (2)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally
received by pawn or purchase and for which applicable hold and/or redemption
periods have expired.



   SECONDHAND ITEM. Tangible personal property, excluding motor vehicles,
which has been previously used, rented, owned or leased.



(2004 Code, § 120.02)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)




LICENSING




§ 120.15  LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.



   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the trade or
business of pawnbroker within the city unless that person is currently
licensed under this chapter.



   (B)   Exceptions to license requirement. A person who holds a motor
vehicle dealer license is exempt from the terms of this chapter with respect
to motor vehicles.



(2004 Code, § 120.15)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.16  INELIGIBLE PERSONS.



   The following are not eligible for licensure under this chapter:



   (A)   Anyone not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;



   (B)   A minor at the time the application is filed;



   (C)   Anyone who has been convicted of any crime directly related to
the licensed occupation and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of pawnbroker or
precious metal dealer under M.S. § 364.03(3), as it may be amended from time
to time;



   (D)   Anyone who holds a liquor license;



   (E)   Anyone who, in the sole judgment of the City Council, is not
the real party in interest or beneficial owner of the business operated under
the license;



   (F)   Anyone who has had a pawnbroker license revoked anywhere
within five years of the license application; or



   (G)   In the case of an individual, anyone who is not a resident of
the county; in the case of a partnership, the managing partner is not a
resident of the county; or, in the case of a corporation, the manager is not
a resident of the county.



      (1)   The required residency must be established by the time
the license is issued and maintained throughout the existence of the license
and all renewals.



      (2)   The time for establishing residency may, for good cause,
be extended by the Council.



(2004 Code, § 120.16)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.17  INELIGIBLE PLACES.



   The following places are not eligible for licensure under this chapter.



   (A)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business
ineligible for a license under city ordinance or state law.



   (B)   No license shall be issued for a place or business which holds
a liquor license.



   (C)   No license shall be granted for operation on any premises on
which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or other
government agency are delinquent and unpaid.



(2004 Code, § 120.17)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.18  LICENSE APPLICATION.



   (A)   In addition to any other information required by any other
government agency, every application for a license under this chapter shall
be made on a form supplied by the city, shall be verified and shall contain
not only the following information, but other information as the city may
reasonably require:



      (1)   Representations as to the applicant’s character;



      (2)   The business in connection with which the proposed
license will operate;



      (3)   Whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the
business and if not, who is;



      (4)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a
name other than his or her true name and, if so, what was the name, or names,
and information concerning dates and places where used;



      (5)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married,
the true name, place and date of birth and street address of the
applicant’s spouse;



      (6)   Street address at which the applicant and spouse have
lived during the preceding ten years;



      (7)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation
the applicant has been engaged in during the preceding ten years;



      (8)   Names and addresses of the applicant’s and spouse’s
employers and partners, if any, for the preceding ten years;



      (9)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been convicted
of a violation of any state law or local ordinance, other than a non-alcohol
related traffic offense. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to
the time, place and offense for which convictions were had;



      (10)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been engaged
as an employee or in operating a pawnshop or other business of a similar
nature. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the time, place
and length of time;



      (11)   Whether the applicant has ever been in military
service. If so, the applicant shall, upon request, document all discharges;



      (12)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address
of all partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of
a single applicant as above. A managing partner, or partners, shall be
designated. The interest of each partner or partners in the business shall be
submitted with the application and, if the partnership is required to file a
certificate as to trade name under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 333, as it may
be amended from time to time, a copy of the certificate certified by the
district court administrator shall be attached to the application;



      (13)   If the applicant is a corporation or other
organization, the applicant shall submit the following:



         (a)   Name and, if incorporated, the state of
incorporation;



         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation,
articles of incorporation or association agreements;



         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other
agent in charge of, or to be in charge of, the premises to be licensed,
giving all information about that person as is required in the case of a
single applicant; and



         (d)   A list of all persons who, singly or together with
their spouses, own or control an interest in the corporation or association
in excess of 5% or who are officers of the corporation or association,
together with their addresses and all information as is required for a single
applicant.



      (14)   A list of responsible persons, including the names of
owners, managers and assistant managers, who may be notified or contacted by
state or city employees in case of emergency;



      (15)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker
license from any other governmental unit and whether the applicant is
licensed under M.S. §§ 471.924 or 325F.731 through 325.744, as they may be
amended from time to time;



      (16)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a pawnbroker
license from any other governmental unit;



      (17)   The location of the business premises;



      (18)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed,
including a map of the area for which the license is sought, showing
dimensions, location of building, street access and parking facilities;



      (19)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes
that are due and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and
if not paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid; and



      (20)   Other information which the city deems appropriate.



   (B)   Any pawnshop conducting business within the city limits on
1-2-1996 shall not be required to submit the application otherwise mandated
by this section. In all other respects, any such pawnshop shall comply with
this chapter.



   (C)   No person shall make a false statement or material omission in
a license application or investigation. Any false statement or material
omission shall be grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.



   (D)   Each licensee shall have the continuing duty to properly
notify the City Administrator of any change in the information or facts
required to be furnished on the application for a license. This duty shall
continue throughout the period of the license. Failure to comply with this
section shall constitute cause for revocation or suspension of the license.



   (E)   The application for the renewal of any existing license shall
be made at least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license
and shall be made on the form which the Council provides.



(2004 Code, § 120.18)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.19  FEES.



   (A)   Every applicant for a license shall pay to the city the
investigation fee specified by the city. This fee shall be for the purpose of
conducting a preliminary background and financial investigation of the
applicant. If the Council believes that the public interest so warrants, it
may require a similar investigation at the time of renewal of any license. If
an investigation is ordered by the City Council at the time of license
renewal, the applicant shall pay the fee specified above; except that, the
fee shall be the smaller of the stated dollar amount or the actual cost of
the investigation. There shall be no refund of the investigation fee for any
person after the investigation has begun.



   (B)   The annual fees for a pawnshop license shall be established by
the City Council by ordinance.



   (C)   Each license shall expire on December 31 of the year in which
it is issued. Fees for licenses issued during the license year shall be
pro-rated according to the number of months remaining in the year. For this
purpose, an unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as a whole month
which shall have elapsed.



   (D)   No refund of any fee shall be made, except as authorized by
the City Council.



(2004 Code, § 120.19)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.20  BOND REQUIRED.



   At the time of filing an application for a license, the applicant shall
file a bond in the amount of $5,000 with the City Administrator. The City
Attorney thereon, must approve the bond, with a duly licensed surety company
as surety as to form. The bond must be conditioned that the licensee shall
observe the ordinances of the city, in relation to the business of
pawnbroker, and all laws in relation to the business of pawnbroker, and will
conduct business in conformity thereto, and that the principal will account
for and deliver to any person legally entitled any goods which may have come
into the principal’s hand through the principal’s business as a
pawnbroker or in lieu thereof will pay the reasonable value in money to the
person. The bond shall contain a provision that no bond may be cancelled,
except upon 30 days’ written notice to the city, which shall be served upon
the licensing authority.



(2004 Code, § 120.20)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.21  LICENSE ISSUANCE.



   (A)   No license shall be issued until the Police Department has
conducted an investigation of the representations set forth in the
application, the applicant’s moral character and the applicant’s
financial status. All applicants must cooperate with this investigation.



   (B)   No license shall be issued until the Council has held a public
hearing in the manner as the Council may direct. At the public hearing, all
persons interested in the matter shall be heard, and the hearing may be
adjourned from time to time. No hearing shall be required for a renewal of a
license, but the Council may, in its sole discretion, hold a hearing.



   (C)   After investigation and hearing, the Council shall, in its
discretion, grant or deny the application.



   (D)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant and for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another person or place without application to the Council in the same manner
as an application for a new license. Transfer of 25% or more of the stock of
a corporation or of a controlling interest thereof, whichever is less, shall
be deemed a transfer of the license of a corporate licensee. If the licensee
is a corporation which is wholly owned by another corporation, the same
provisions about the transfer of a stock or a controlling interest shall
apply to that parent corporation, any second parent corporation which wholly
owns the parent corporation and all other similarly situated parent
corporations up through the chain of ownership. Transfer of this amount of
stock without prior Council approval is a ground for revocation or suspension
of the license. In addition, each day the licensee operates under the license
after a transfer has taken place without obtaining Council approval shall be
a separate violation of this chapter.



   (E)   Any application for a license may be considered by the City
Council at the same time an applicant is requesting any land use approvals
needed for the site, including site plan review, rezoning or an amendment to
the Comprehensive Guide Plan. Final approval of a license shall not be
granted until the City Council has given at least preliminary approval to any
necessary land use request. If an application is granted for a location where
a building is under construction or not ready for occupancy, the license
shall not be delivered to the licensee until a certificate of occupancy has
been issued for the licensed premises.



   (F)   In the case of the death of a licensee, the personal
representative of a licensee may continue operation of the business for not
more than 180 days after the licensee’s death.



(2004 Code, § 120.21)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.22  LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.



   Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended or revoked for
one or more of the following reasons.



   (A)   Delinquent taxes. The City Council may suspend or revoke a
license issued under this chapter for operation on any premises on which real
estate taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the
state are due, delinquent or unpaid. If an action has been commenced pursuant
to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 278, as it may be amended from time to time,
questioning the amount of validity of taxes, the Council may on application
by the licensee waive strict compliance with the provision; no waiver may be
granted, however, for taxes, or any portion thereof, which remain unpaid for
a period exceeding one year after becoming due unless the one-year period is
extended through no fault of the licensee.



   (B)   Violations. The Council may either suspend for up to 60 days
or revoke any license or impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000 for each
violation upon a finding that the licensee or an agent or employee of the
licensee has failed to comply with any applicable statute, regulation or
ordinance. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee
has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57
through 14.69, as it may be amended from time to time. Any conviction by the
licensee for theft, burglary, robbery, receiving stolen property or any other
crime or violation involving stolen property shall result in the immediate
suspension pending a hearing on revocation of any license issued hereunder.



   (C)   The proposed use does not comply with the applicable zoning
code.



   (D)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building,
building maintenance or other provisions of this code of ordinances or state
law.



   (E)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or
more provisions of this chapter.



   (F)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a
resident alien or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a
background or financial investigation due to the unavailability of
information.



   (G)   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a
license.



   (H)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in
application and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant’s
business.



   (I)   Violation within preceding five years of any law relating to
the theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of controlled substances or
operation of a business.



   (J)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not
qualify for a license under the terms of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 120.22)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)




RULES AND REGULATIONS




§ 120.35  LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY; CONDUCT.



   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of order in it. The act of any employee of the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the
employee, except criminal penalties.



(2004 Code, § 120.35)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.36  LICENSE DISPLAY REQUIRED.



   Every license must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for
which it is used.



(2004 Code, § 120.36)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.37  RECORDS REQUIRED.



   (A)   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals,
extensions, redemption or confiscations, every licensee must  immediately
record in English the following information by using ink or other indelible
medium on forms or in computerized record approved by the Police Department.



      (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item,
including, but not limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial
number, model number, brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;



      (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned or pledged
therefor;



      (3)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due,
including monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;



      (4)   Date, time and place the item of property was received
by the licensee and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier
that distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee’s records;



      (5)   Full name, current residence address, current residence
telephone number, date of birth and accurate description of the person from
whom the item of property was received, including sex, height, weight, race,
color of eyes and color of hair;



      (6)   The identification number and state of issue from any of
the following forms of identification of the seller:



         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;



         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or



         (c)   Current valid photo identification card issued by
another state or province of Canada.



      (7)   The signature of the person identified in the
transaction; and



      (8)   (a)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification
by the Police Department of acceptable video standards, the licensee must
also take a color photograph or color video recording of:



            1.   Each customer involved in a billable
transaction; and



            2.   Every item pawned or sold that does not have
a unique serial or identification number permanently engraved or affixed.



         (b)    If a photograph is taken, it must be at least two
inches in length by two inches in width and must be maintained in such a
manner that the photograph can be readily matched and correlated with all
other records of the transaction to which they relate. Such photographs must
be available to the Chief of Police or the Chief’s designee upon request.
The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable facial image
of the person who pawned or sold the item. Items photographed must be
accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the person that he or she is
being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous
place on the premises. If a video photograph is taken, the video camera must
focus on the person pawning or selling the item so as to include an
identifiable image of that person’s face. Items photographed by video must
be accurately depicted. Video photographs must be electronically referenced
by time and date so they can be readily matched and correlated with all other
records of the transaction to which they relate. The licensee must inform the
person that he or she is being videotaped by displaying a sign of sufficient
size in a conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee must keep the
exposed videotape for three months.



   (B)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the Police
Department, licensees must fulfill the color photograph requirements in
division (A)(8) above by submitting them as digital images, in a format
specified by the issuing authority, electronically cross referenced to the
reportable transaction they are associated with. Notwithstanding the digital
images may be captured from required video recordings, this provision does
not alter or amend the requirements in division (A)(8) above.



   (C)   For renewals, extensions, redemptions and confiscations, the
licensee shall provide the original transaction identifier, the date of the
current transaction and the type of transaction.



(2004 Code, § 120.37)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.38  INSPECTION OF RECORDS.



   The licensee shall make available the information required above at all
reasonable times for inspection by law enforcement officials. The information
required in § 120.37 of this chapter shall be retained by the pawnbroker for
at least seven years.



(2004 Code, § 120.38)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.39  PROPERTY RECEIVED; RECEIPTS.



   (A)   Each licensee shall issue a receipt as follows.



   (B)   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified
in every reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt
for seven years. The receipt must include at least the following information:



      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the licensed
business;



      (2)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee;



      (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold or the nature of the
transaction;



      (4)   An accurate description of each item received including,
but not limited to any trademark, identification number, serial number, model
number, brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;



      (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or
employee who conducted the transaction;



      (6)   The amount advanced or paid;



      (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all
pawn fees and charges;



      (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must
be redeemed by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold and the
amount necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date;



      (9)   The full name, current residence address, current
residence telephone number and date of birth of the pledger or seller;



      (10)   The identification number and state of issue from any
of the following forms of identification of the seller:



         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;



         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or



         (c)   Current valid photo driver’s license or
identification card issued by another state or province of Canada.



      (11)   Description of the pledger or seller, including
approximate height and weight, sex, race, color of eyes and color of hair;



      (12)   The signature of the pledger or seller; and



      (13)   All printed statements as required by M.S. § 325J.04,
Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, or any other applicable
statutes.



(2004 Code, § 120.39)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.40  DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.



   Daily reports to Police Department containing the following information
are hereby required.



   (A)   Automated Pawn System interchange file specification.



      (1)   Effective no later than 60 days after the Police
Department provides licensees with the current version of the Automated Pawn
System interchange file specification, licensees must submit every reportable
transaction to the Police Department daily in the following manner.



      (2)   Licensees must provide to the Police Department all
reportable transaction information by transferring it from their computers to
the Automated Pawn System via modem using the current version of the
Automated Pawn System interchange file specification. All required records
must be transmitted completely and accurately after the close of business
each day in accordance with standards and procedures established by the
issuing authority. Any transaction that does not meet the Automated Pawn
System interchange file specification must be corrected and resubmitted the
next business day. The licensee must display a sign of sufficient size, in a
conspicuous place on the premises, which informs patrons that all
transactions are reported to the Police Department daily.



   (B)   Billable transaction fees. Licensees will be charged for each
billable transaction reported to the Police Department.



      (1)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the
required reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department,
upon request, printed copies of all reportable transactions along with the
video tape(s) for that date, by noon the next business day.



      (2)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s
system and is not corrected by the close of the first business day following
the failure, the licensee must continue to provide the required reports as
detailed in division (A)(1) above and shall be charged $1.50 (reserved for
future consideration) reporting failure penalty, daily, until the error is
corrected.



      (3)   If the problem is determined to be outside the
licensee’s system, the licensee must continue to provide the required
reports in division (A)(1) above and resubmit all such transactions via modem
when the error is corrected.



      (4)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit
the photographs required in § 120.37 of this chapter, the licensee must
immediately take all required photographs with a still camera, cross
reference the photographs to the correct transaction and make the pictures
available to the Police Department upon request.



      (5)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical
problems that prevented the licensee from uploading their reportable
transactions, upon correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every
reportable transaction from every business day the problem had existed.



      (6)   This section notwithstanding, the Police Department may,
upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, delay the implementation of
the daily reporting penalty.



(2004 Code, § 120.40)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.41  POLICE RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OR REDEMPTION/ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.



   (A)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from
any agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold
or removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in
writing by the originating agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect
for 15 days from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative
order is cancelled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued, pursuant
to division (B) below, whichever comes first.



   (B)   Order to hold. Whenever the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s
designee, notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold
or removed from the licensees premises until authorized to be released by the
Chief of Police or the Chief’s designee. The order to hold shall expire 90
days from the date it is placed unless the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s
designee, determines the hold is still necessary and notifies the licensee in
writing.



   (C)   Order to confiscate. If an item is identified as stolen or
evidence in a criminal case, the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee,
may:



      (1)   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop
pursuant to a written order from the Chief of Police or the Chief’s
designee; and



      (2)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in
division (B) above and leave it in the shop.



   (D)   Proper identification. When an item is confiscated, the person
doing so shall provide identification upon request of the licensee and shall
provide the licensee with the name and telephone number of the confiscating
agency and investigator and the case number related to the confiscation.



   (E)   Notification. When an order to hold/confiscate is no longer
necessary, the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee, shall so notify
the licensee.



(2004 Code, § 120.41)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)



§ 120.42  INSPECTION OF ITEMS.



   (A)   Inspection by city. The licensee shall, at all times during
the term of the license, allow the City Police Department to enter the
premises where the business is located and any other premises where



items purchased or received as part of the business are stored, for the
purpose of inspecting the premises and the merchandise therein to locate
items suspected or alleged to have been stolen or otherwise improperly
disposed of.



   (B)   Inspection by claimants. Additionally, all the items coming
into possession of the licensee shall at all times be open to inspection and
right of examination of any person claiming to have been the owner thereof or
claiming to have any interest therein, when that person is accompanied by a
police officer. The licensee may require, prior to inspection, a reasonable
description of the property from the party claiming ownership or an interest
in the property.



(2004 Code, § 120.42)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.43  GAMBLING PROHIBITED.



   No licensee may keep, possess or operate, or permit the keeping,
possession or operation on the licensed premises of dice, slot machines,
roulette wheels, punchboards, blackjack tables or pinball machines which
return coins or slugs, chips or tokens of any kind, which are redeemable in
merchandise or cash. No gambling equipment authorized under M.S. §§ 349.11
through 349.61, as they may be amended from time to time, may be kept or
operated and no raffles may be conducted on the licensed premises or
adjoining rooms. The purchase of lottery tickets may take place on the
licensed premises as authorized by the director of the lottery pursuant to
M.S. §§ 349A.01 through 349A.15, as they may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 120.43)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.44  STORAGE; OVERSIZED ITEMS.



   All items must be stored within the licensed premises building, except
the city may permit the licensee to designate one locked and secured
warehouse building within the city in which the licensee may store oversized
items. No item may be stored in the designated warehouse building that is not
reported in the journal. The licensee shall permit immediate inspection of
the warehouse at any time during business hours by the city, and failure to
do so is a violation of this chapter. Oversized items may not be stored in
parking lots or other outside areas. All provisions regarding record keeping
and reporting shall apply to oversized items.



(2004 Code, § 120.44)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.45  OFF-SITE SALES AND STORAGE.



   All items accepted by a licensee at a licensed location in the city
shall be for pledge or sale through a licensed location in the city. The
licensee shall be responsible for maintaining adequate records to demonstrate
ownership for the sale or pledging of items acquired at appropriately
licensed facilities located in other cities.



(2004 Code, § 120.45)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.46  RESTRICTIONS ON WEAPONS.



   (A)   A licensee may not receive as a pledge or otherwise, or accept
for consignment or sale, any firearm as defined in § 130.01 of this code of
ordinances, unless the licensee also maintains a federal firearms dealer’s
license.



   (B)   A licensee may not receive as a pledge or otherwise, or accept
for consignment or sale, any assault weapon.



   (C)   A licensee may not use out-of-state identification for the
sale, consignment or pawning of any firearm.



(2004 Code, § 120.46)  (Ord. 95-162, passed 2-27-1996; Ord. 06-0442, passed
8-8-2006)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 120.47  REDEMPTION PERIOD.



   Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item for security must
have a minimum of 90 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the
item before it may be forfeited and sold. During the 90-day holding period,
items may not be removed from the licensed location, except as provided in §
120.48 of this chapter. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to
anyone other than the person to whom the receipt was issued or to any person
identified in writing by the pledger at the time of the initial transaction
and signed by the pledger, or with approval of the Chief of Police, or the
Chief’s designee. Written authorization for release of property to persons
other than original pledger must be maintained along with the original
transaction record in accordance with § 120.37 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 120.47)  (Ord. 06-0442, passed 8-8-2006)



§ 120.48  HOLDING PERIOD.



   Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee must not be sold
or otherwise transferred for 21 days from the date of the transaction. An
individual may redeem an item 72 hours after the item was received on
deposit, excluding Sundays and legal holidays.



(2004 Code, § 120.48)  (Ord. 06-0442, passed 8-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 120.49  LABEL REQUIRED.



   Licensees must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased or received in inventory from a reportable transaction. Permanently
recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies the
transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the name of the
item and the description or the model and serial number of the item as
reported to the Police Department, whichever is applicable, and the date the
item is out of pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels should not be
re-used.



(2004 Code, § 120.49)  (Ord. 06-0442, passed 8-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 120.50  PROHIBITED ACTS.



   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or
attempt to pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive
any goods from a person under the age of 18 years.



   (B)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound
mind or an intoxicated person.



   (C)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid State of
Minnesota identification card, or a current valid photo driver’s license or
identification card issued by the state or providence of residency of the
person from whom the item was received.



   (D)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an
altered or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or
any item or property that has had its serial number removed.



   (E)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit
any article of property not their own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge,
sell, consign, leave or deposit the property of another, whether with
permission or without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign,
leave or deposit any article of property in which another has a security
interest, with any licensee.



   (F)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or
deposit any article of property with any licensee shall give a false or
fictitious name; nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of
date address of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered
identification, or the identification of another, to any licensee.



(2004 Code, § 120.50)  (Ord. 06-0442, passed 8-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 120.51  BUSINESS AT ONLY ONE PLACE.



   A license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license.
However, upon written request, the Chief of Police, or Chief’s designee,
may approve an off-site locked and secured storage facility. The licensee
shall permit inspection of the facility in accordance with § 120.38 of this
chapter. All provisions of this chapter regarding record keeping and
reporting apply to the facility and its contents. Property shall be stored in
compliance with all provisions of the city code. The licensee must either own
the building in which the business is conducted, and any approved off-site
storage facility, or have a lease on the business premises that extends for
more than six months.



(2004 Code, § 120.51)  (Ord. 06-0442, passed 8-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 120.52  EFFECTIVE DATE.



   This subchapter shall be effective from and after the later of the
following:



   (A)   Sixty days after its adoption and second publication; or



   (B)   February 1, 2007.



(2004 Code, § 120.52)  (Ord. 06-0442, passed 8-8-2006)



CHAPTER 121:  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES



Section



   121.01   Purpose



   121.02   Findings



   121.03   Definitions



   121.04   Exceptions



   121.05   License required



   121.06   Person ineligible



   121.07   Places ineligible



   121.08   License application



   121.09   Fees



   121.10   Granting of licenses



   121.11   Conditions of license



   121.12   Restrictions and regulations



   121.13   Suspensions and revocation of license



 



   121.99   Penalty



   Appendix A:  Resolution adopting the findings of the Report of the
Attorney General’s Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented
Businesses



§ 121.01  PURPOSE.



   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe licensing requirements for
sexually-oriented businesses to protect the public health, safety and welfare
and to prevent criminal activity and the spread of sexually-transmitted
diseases.



(2004 Code, § 121.01)



§ 121.02  FINDINGS.



   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect
sexually oriented businesses have on the character of the city’s
neighborhoods. In making these findings, the City Council accepts the
recommendations and conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General’s
Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated
6-6-1989, a copy of which is on file in the City Administrator’s office.
This chapter shall have no force and effect until the City Council accepts
these recommendations by resolution of a majority of its members, using the
model resolution contained in App. A of this chapter.



   (A)   Sexually-oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in
criminal activity in the area in which such businesses are located,
increasing the demands on city crime-prevention programs and law enforcement
services.



   (B)   Sexually-oriented businesses can be used as fronts for
prostitution and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities
indicates that proper management and operation of such businesses can
minimize this risk.



   (C)   Sexually-oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure
to communicable diseases, including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
(AIDS), for which there is currently no cure. Experiences of other cities
indicate that such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable
diseases by virtue of the design and use of the premises, endangering not
only the patrons of such establishments but also the general public.



   (D)   Sexually-oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public
health problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction
with food and/or drink on the same premises.



   (E)   A licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this
chapter can facilitate the enforcement of the city’s “anti-blight”
regulations, as set forth in Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, and can aid
in monitoring sexually-oriented businesses for adverse secondary effects on
the community.



   (F)   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems
can be minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in
this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 121.02)



§ 121.03  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes the following:



      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria,
measured on a daily, weekly, monthly or yearly basis:



         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade
or publicly displayed merchandise in sexually-oriented materials;



         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not
including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements or any portion of the
business not open to the public) to sexually-oriented materials; or



         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from
sexually-oriented materials.



      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a
sexually-oriented use as defined in this section or any other use that has an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed or aural materials, and
other objects or devices, that:



      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas;



      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are
primarily used only with or during specified sexual activities; or



      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.



   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED USE. Any of the following activities and businesses,
even if the activity exists for only a short-time.



      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business
that provides the service of applying paint, ink or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.



      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for
the barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audiotape, videotape, movies or motion picture film if it
meets the criteria established in the definition of “sexually-oriented
business,” as defined in this section.



      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides
dancing or other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on:



         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or



         (b)   The presentation, display or depiction of matter
that seeks to evoke, arouse or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.



      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or
establishment that provides the service of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or
establishment that provides the services of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.



      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.



      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or
health club that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or
establishment with a capacity of less than 50 persons that, as a prevailing
practice, presents on-premises viewing of movies, motion pictures or other
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that
provides live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or
sexual gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display
specified anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon,
sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted.



      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the
public is permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater
with a capacity of 50 or more persons that, as a prevailing practice,
presents material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.



      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business
that has a variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in
division (1) of the definition of “sexually-oriented business”, defined
in this section.



      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of
age, and that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose
of bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.



      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or
portion of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room
used for the purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the
building or portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if
the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.



   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes the following:



      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and



      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal,
whether or not completely and opaquely covered.



   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes the following:



      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral
copulation; anal intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct
physical stimulation of unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the
context of a sexual relationship; the use of excretory functions in the
context of a sexual relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia;
cunnilingus; fellatio; necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;



      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;



      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral
copulation, coitus or masturbation;



      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts;



      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom
are nude, who are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and
engaged in the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical
restraint of any person;



      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other
sexually-oriented contact with an animal by a human being; or



      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or
anal irrigation, in the context of a sexual relationship.



(2004 Code, § 121.03)



§ 121.04  EXCEPTIONS.



   This chapter does not regulate the following:



   (A)   Material with significant literary content or social
commentary;



   (B)   A business where sexually-oriented materials are sold,
bartered, distributed, leased, furnished or otherwise provided for off-site
use or entertainment, if the sexually-oriented material on each item is
blocked from view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it
may be amended from time to time, and each item is in an area accessible only
by an employee of the business;



   (C)   A person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295, as it
may be amended from time to time;



   (D)   Activity regulated under M.S. § 617.202, as it may be amended
from time to time;



   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so
long as no sexually-oriented materials are for sale, and the business does
not have a liquor license; and



   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.



(2004 Code, § 121.04)



§ 121.05  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   No person may own or operate a sexually-oriented business within the
city unless the person is currently licensed under this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 121.05)  Penalty, see § 121.99



§ 121.06  PERSONS INELIGIBLE.



   No license may be issued to a person who:



   (A)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;



   (B)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;



   (C)   Has been convicted of a crime directly related to the licensed
occupation and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of the owner, operator or manager
of a sexually-oriented business under M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time;



   (D)   Holds a liquor license under Ch. 112 of this code of
ordinances;



   (E)   In the judgment of the licensing authority, is not the real
party in interest or beneficial owner of the business operated under the
license;



   (F)   Has had a license for a sexually-oriented business or similar
business revoked anywhere within five years of the license application; or



   (G)   In the case of an individual, is not a resident of the state;
in the case of a partnership, the managing partner is not a resident of the
state; or, in the case of a corporation, the manager is not a resident of the
state. The required residency must be established by the time the license is
issued and maintained throughout the existence of the license and all
renewals. The time for establishing residency may, for good cause, be
extended by the licensing authority.



(2004 Code, § 121.06)



§ 121.07  PLACES INELIGIBLE.



   No license may be issued for:



   (A)   A place or a business ineligible for a license under city
ordinance or state law;



   (B)   Operation in a zoning district where the business is not
allowed pursuant to Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances;



   (C)   A place or business that is currently licensed as a tattoo
establishment, pawnshop, massage business or establishment that sells
alcoholic beverages; or



   (D)   Operation on a premises on which taxes, assessments or other
financial claims of the city or other government agency are delinquent and
unpaid, unless the non-payment is not under the control of the applicant.



(2004 Code, § 121.07)



§ 121.08  LICENSE APPLICATION.



   (A)   The application for a sexually-oriented business license under
this chapter must be made on a form supplied by the city and must provide the
following information:



      (1)   The business in connection with which the proposed
license will operate;



      (2)   The location of the business premises;



      (3)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed,
including a map of the area for which the license is sought, showing
dimensions, locations of buildings, street access and parking facilities;



      (4)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that
are due and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid and, if
not paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid;



      (5)   Whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the
business and if not, who is;



      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a
name other than his or her true name, and if so, what was the name or names,
and information concerning dates and places where used;



      (7)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married,
the true name, place and date of birth and street address of applicant’s
spouse;



      (8)   Street address at which the applicant and spouse have
lived during the preceding ten years;



      (9)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation
the applicant and spouse have been engaged in during the preceding ten years;



      (10)   Names and addresses of the applicant’s and spouse’s
employers and partners, if any, for the preceding ten years;



      (11)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been convicted
of a violation of a state law or local ordinance, other than a non-alcohol
related traffic offense. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to
the time, place and offense for which convictions were had;



      (12)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been engaged
as an employee or in operating a sexually-oriented business, massage business
or other business of a similar nature. If so, the applicant must furnish
information as to the time, place and length of time;



      (13)   Whether the applicant has ever been in military
service. If so, the applicant must, upon request, exhibit all discharges;



      (14)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address
of all partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of
a single applicant as above. A managing partner or partners must be
designated. The interest of each partner or partners in the business must be
submitted with the application and, if the partnership is required to file a
certificate as to trade name under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 333, as it may
be amended from time to time, a copy of the certificate must be attached to
the application;



      (15)   If the applicant is a corporation or other
organization, the applicant must submit the following:



         (a)   Name, and if incorporated, the state of
incorporation;



         (b)   Names and addresses of all officers;



         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other
agent in charge of, or to be in charge of the premises to be licensed, giving
all information about said person as is required in the case of a single
applicant; and



         (d)   A list of all persons who, single or together with
their spouse, own or control an interest in said corporation or association
in excess of 5% or who are officers of said corporation or association,
together with their addresses and all information as is required for a single
applicant.



      (16)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in
the business, land, building, premises, fixtures, furniture or
stock-in-trade, and proof of the source of the money;



      (17)   A list of responsible persons, including the names of
owners, managers and assistant managers, who may be notified or contacted by
state or city employees in case of emergency. These persons must be residents
of the state.



      (18)   Whether the applicant holds a current license for a
sexually-oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;



      (19)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a license
for a sexually-oriented business or similar business from another
governmental unit; and



      (20)   Other information that the city deems appropriate.



   (B)   No person may make a false statement or material omission in a
license application or investigation. A false statement or material omission
is grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.



   (C)   Each licensee has the continuing duty to properly notify the
Director of Community Development of a change in the information or facts
required to be furnished on the application for a license. This duty
continues throughout the period of the license. Failure to comply with this
section will constitute cause for revocation or suspension of the license.



   (D)   The application for the renewal of an existing license must be
made at least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and
must be made on the form which the city provides.



(2004 Code, § 121.08)



§ 121.09  FEES.



   (A)   An applicant for a license must pay to the city the
investigation fee specified by ordinance, as that ordinance may be amended
from time to time. This fee will be for the purpose of conducting a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant. If the
city believes that the public interest so warrants, it may require a similar
investigation at the time of renewal of a license. If an investigation is
ordered at the time of license renewal, the applicant must pay the fee
specified above, except that the fee will be the smaller of the stated dollar
amount or the actual cost of the investigation. There will be no refund of
the investigation fee after the investigation has begun.



   (B)   The annual fees for a license are set forth in ordinance, as
that ordinance may be amended from time to time.



   (C)   Each license expires on December 31 of the year in which it is
issued. Fees for licenses issued during the license year will be prorated
according to the number of months remaining in the year. For this purpose an
unexpired fraction of a month will be counted as a whole month having elapsed.



   (D)   No refund of a fee will be made, except as authorized by
ordinance.



(2004 Code, § 121.09)



§ 121.10  GRANTING OF LICENSES.



   (A)   No license may be issued until the Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, if the city has no Police Department, has conducted an
investigation of the representations set forth in the application, the
applicant’s moral character, and the applicant’s financial status. All
applicants must cooperate with this investigation.



   (B)   No license, except for a renewed license, may be issued for a
sexually-oriented business until the Council has held a public hearing.
Notice of the hearing must be made in the same manner as that specified in
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances, for a zoning ordinance amendment
affecting district boundaries. The Council must grant the license unless the
applicant or the location does not meet the requirements of the city code,
the application was incomplete, or the application contained false
information or a material omission. If the application is denied, the city
must notify the applicant with the reason(s) stated for denial. Notification
must be sent certified, United States mail, return receipt requested, to the
address provided on the license application. If the Council fails to act on
the application within 45 days after receipt of a complete application, the
application will be deemed approved. An applicant wishing to appeal the
action of the City Council may seek a writ of certiorari before the State
Court of Appeals.



   (C)   (1)   The City Council may issue a license before an
investigation, notice and public hearing for an applicant who:



         (a)   Had a license within the previous five years for
the establishment that is specified in the application and that is continuing
to operate under a license;



         (b)   Wishes to resume operation of the business without
sufficient time, through no fault of his or her own, to meet the normal
procedural requirements;



         (c)   Had no criminal license convictions, or license
suspensions or revocations during the prior licensed period; and



         (d)   Otherwise qualifies and meets the requirements for
a license.



      (2)   In this situation, the City Council may immediately
issue an interim license to the applicant for a period of no longer than 90
days. The applicant must then proceed through the specified requirements for
an investigation, notice and public hearing. At the public hearing, the
Council will decide whether the license should continue in effect or be
revoked. The applicant has no greater right to continuation of the license
than he or she would have had to issuance of a new license following the
normal procedure without the interim license.



   (D)   A license will be issued only to the applicant and for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another person or place without application in the same manner as an
application for a new license. Transfer of 25% or more of the stock of a
corporation or of a controlling interest of it, whichever is less, will be
deemed a transfer of the license. If the licensee is a corporation that is
wholly owned by another corporation, the same provisions about the transfer
of a stock or a controlling interest will apply to that parent corporation,
any second parent corporation that wholly owns the parent corporation, and
all other similarly situated parent corporations up through the chain of
ownership. Transfer of this amount of stock without prior Council approval is
a ground for revocation or suspension of the license. In addition, each day
the licensee operates under the license after a transfer has taken place
without obtaining Council approval will be a separate violation of this
chapter.



   (E)   In the case of the death of a licensee, the personal
representative of a licensee may continue operation of the business for not
more than 90 days after the licensee’s death.



(2004 Code, § 121.10)  Penalty, see § 121.99



§ 121.11  CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.



   (A)   A license is subject to the conditions in this section, all
other provisions of this chapter, and of other applicable regulations,
ordinances or state laws.



   (B)   A licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place
of business and the conditions of order in it. The act of an employee of the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
is liable for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the
employee, except criminal penalties.



   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place in the
premises for which it is used.



(2004 Code, § 121.11)  Penalty, see § 121.99



§ 121.12  RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.



   A sexually-oriented business is subject to the following restrictions
and regulations.



   (A)   No owner, manager or employee may allow sexually-oriented
materials or entertainment to be visible or perceivable in any manner,
including aurally, at any time from outside of the business.



   (B)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age
of 18 to enter the business.



   (C)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age
of 18 to have access to sexually-oriented materials, whether by sight,
purchase, touch or other means.



   (D)   No owner or manager may employ a person under the age of 18 on
the licensed premises.



   (E)   No owner, manager, or employee may have been convicted of a
sex crime, as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to 609.352, 609.746 to 609.749,
609.79 or 518B.01, as they may be amended from time to time, or related
statute dealing with sexual assault, sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity or
domestic abuse within the past five years.



   (F)   No business may exceed 10,000 square feet in gross floor area.



   (G)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a patron, employee or
other person on the premises to physically contact, in public view, a
specified anatomical area of himself or herself or of another person; except
that, a live performer may touch himself or herself.



   (H)   A live performer must remain at all times a minimum distance
of ten feet from members of the audience, and must perform on a platform
intended for that purpose, that must be raised at least two feet from the
level of the floor on which the audience is located. No performer may solicit
or accept money, a tip or other item from a member of the audience.



   (I)   No business may have booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a
room or individual rooms, except as follows.



      (1)   Restrooms are allowed as long as they are no larger than
reasonably necessary to serve the purposes of a restroom, no other activities
are provided or allowed in the rooms and there are no chairs, benches or
reclining surfaces in the rooms; and



      (2)   Storage rooms and private offices are allowed, if the
storage rooms and offices are used solely for running the business and no
person other than the owner, manager and employees is allowed in them.



   (J)   A licensee must not be open for business to the public:



      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday
through Saturday; and



      (2)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.



(2004 Code, § 121.12)  Penalty, see § 121.99



§ 121.13  SUSPENSIONS AND REVOCATIONS OF LICENSE.



   (A)   Delinquent taxes. The City Council may suspend or revoke a
license issued under this chapter for operation on a premises on which real
estate taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the
state are due, delinquent or unpaid, unless the non-payment is not under the
control of the licensee. If an action has been commenced under M.S. Ch. 278,
as it may be amended from time to time, questioning the amount or validity of
taxes, the Council may, on application by the licensee, waive strict
compliance with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes,
or a portion of them, that remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year
after becoming due, unless the one-year period is extended through no fault
of the licensee.



   (B)   Violations.



      (1)   The Council may either suspend for up to 60 days or
revoke a license for a violation upon a finding that the licensee or an agent
or employee of the licensee has failed to comply with an applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance relating to the subject matter of this chapter or
violated the statutes in division (B)(2) below. No suspension or revocation
will take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a
hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from
time to time, with the exception of the suspension provided for in division
(B)(2) below.



      (2)   Conviction of a sex crime, as identified in M.S. §§
609.293 to 609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or 518B.01, as they may be
amended from time to time, or related statute dealing with sexual assault,
sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity or domestic abuse by the licensee will
result in the immediate suspension pending a hearing on revocation of a
license issued under this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 121.13)



§ 121.99  PENALTY.



   Except as otherwise provided by state law, a person violating a
provision of this chapter is subject to the penalties established in § 10.99
of this code of ordinances. A fine or sentence imposed does not affect the
right of the city to suspend or revoke the license of the licensee as the
Council deems appropriate.



(2004 Code, § 121.99)



APPENDIX A: RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINDINGS OF THE REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL’S WORKING GROUP ON THE REGULATION OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES

 

   WHEREAS because of its small size, the city lacks the resources to
investigate and research the impact sexually-oriented businesses would have
on the character of the city’s neighborhoods; and

 

   WHEREAS the city intends to rely on the Report of the Attorney
General’s Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually-oriented Businesses,
dated June 6, 1989, as a basis for regulating sexually-oriented businesses in
this city; and

 

   WHEREAS the members of the City Council have reviewed this Report;

 

   NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of this City hereby accepts the
recommendations and conclusions of this Report and adopts the recommendations
and conclusions by reference of the Report of the Attorney General’s
Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually-Oriented Businesses, dated June
6, 1989; and by passage of this resolution implements the provisions of
Chapters 121 and 155.

 

 

Signed:                                              

      Mayor

 

 

Attest:                                              

      City Manager

 



 



(2004 Code, Ch. 121, App. I)



CHAPTER 122:  RENTAL UNIT REGISTRATION



Section



   122.01   Purpose and findings



   122.02   Definitions



   122.03   Registration requirements



   122.04   Exemptions



   122.05   Manner of registration renewal



   122.06   Transfer of property



   122.07   Posting of registration



   122.08   Fees



   122.09   Safe housing education; maintenance of records



   122.10   Maintenance standards



   122.11   Inspections and investigations



   122.12   Failure to grant registration; revocation, suspension or
failure to renew a registration



   122.13   Summary action



   122.14   Interim housing



   122.15   Applicable laws



   122.16   Violations; injunctive relief



   122.17   Written notices



   122.18   Effective date



 



   122.99   Penalty



§ 122.01  PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.



   (A)   The City Council finds that there is a need for periodic
municipal inspection of residential rental units in the city to ensure that
such units meet city and state safety, health, fire and zoning laws and codes
in order to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the community at
large and the residents of rental units within the city.



   (B)   The City Council finds that a municipal registration program
is appropriate to effectively enforce residential rental unit maintenance
standards and correct or prevent law violations, nuisances and other
disturbances and disorders involving residential rental units within the city.



   (C)   The City Council finds that an effective means of implementing
the foregoing registration of all residential rental units with the city and
inspection of such units from time to time as determined appropriate in the
exercise of discretion by staff and personnel of the city and in response to
complaints involving such units.



(2004 Code, § 122.01)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.02  DEFINITIONS.



   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires another meaning.



   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or his or her designee.



   DWELLING. Any building or other permanent or temporary structure,
including a manufactured or mobile home which is wholly or partly used, or
intended to be used, for living or sleeping by human occupants.



   LOCAL PROPERTY MANAGER.A natural person residing within 50 miles of the
city who is authorized by the rental unit owner to make decisions for the
owner about rental, occupancy and maintenance of the rental unit.



   REGISTRATION HOLDER.A person or entity that is the owner of record
according to the records on file with the county.



   RENT, LEASE, LET or SUBLET.The leasing of a rental unit to a non-owner
for a fixed or non-fixed period of time, and shall include installment sales,
purchases and other similar arrangements whereby non-payment of a periodic
payment means the occupants may be evicted without the necessity of either a
statutory mortgage foreclosure procedure, a statutory termination of contract
for deed procedure or a statutory repossession procedure.



   RENTAL UNIT or RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT. Any house, apartment,
condominium, townhouse, manufactured home; mobile home, mobile or
manufactured home lot, room or group of rooms, constituting or located
within, a dwelling and forming a habitable unit.



   SHALL and MUST. Mandatory. Should and may as used in this chapter are
each permissive or directory.



(2004 Code, § 122.02)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.03  REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   No person or entity may hereafter occupy, allow to be occupied
or rent, lease, let or sublet a rental unit, to another person or entity for
occupancy unless that rental unit is registered for occupancy pursuant to a
valid and current rental unit registration issued by the City Administrator.



   (B)   Each rental unit must have an owner, or local property manager
designated by the owner, who resides within 50 miles of the city.



   (C)   All rental agreements or leases used to rent, let, lease or
sublet any rental unit to another person or entity for occupancy shall
include and incorporate by reference, as a condition of the occupancy or
tenancy, all of terms, provisions and requirements of §§ 122.07, 122.09
through 122.16 and 122.99 of this chapter. All tenants or other occupants
under any rental agreements or leases used to rent, let lease or sublet any
rental unit shall be provided a written notice that the terms of the rental
agreement or lease include and incorporate all of the terms, provisions and
requirements of §§ 122.07, 122.09 through 122.16 and 122.99 or this chapter
and such written notice shall recite verbatim the terms, provisions and
requirements of §§ 122.07, 122.09 through 122.16 and 122.99 of this chapter.



   (D)   Any person or entity desiring to rent, let, lease or sublet to
another any rental unit shall apply for registration by using forms furnished
by the Administrator for that purpose. The forms must provide information
required by the Administrator, including the following:



      (1)   Name, address, phone number (and fax number, if owner
has one) of the property owner;



      (2)   Name, address, phone number (and fax number, if manager
has one) of a designated local property manger;



      (3)   The street address of the rental property;



      (4)   The number and types of units within the rental property
(dwelling units or sleeping rooms);



      (5)   The maximum number of occupants permitted for each
dwelling unit or sleeping room; and



      (6)   The name, phone number, fax number and address of the
person authorized to make, or order, repairs or services for the property if
in violation of city or state codes, if the person is different than the
owner or local property manager.



   (E)   Registration holders shall provide a list of all residents in
a particular rental unit to the City Administrator or his or her designee
upon request.



(2004 Code, § 122.03)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.04  EXEMPTIONS.



   This chapter does not apply to units owned, operated or managed by a
governmental entity or agency, hospital units or rooms, nursing homes,
retirement homes or other similar rental space which



is otherwise registered by the state or the city if 100% of the units are
agency inspected on a yearly basis.



(2004 Code, § 122.04)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.05  MANNER OF REGISTRATION RENEWAL.



   The first registration of property must be done by 5-1-2008. The city
will annually mail registration renewal forms to rental unit owners or their
designated local property managers on or about January 1 of each year.
Completed registration renewal forms must be delivered to the City
Administrator or his or her designee no later than March 1 of each year.
Failure of the city to mail renewal forms and failure of an owner or local
property manager to receive a renewal form, does not excuse or waive the
registration required by this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 122.05)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.06  TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.



   Every new owner of a rental unit, whether fee owner or contract
purchases, shall furnish to the City Administrator or his or her designee the
new owner’s name, address, phone number and fax number and the name,
address, phone number and fax number of the new owner’s designated local
property manager before taking possession of the rental property upon closing
the transaction. No new registration fee is to be required of the new owner
during the year in which such possession takes place; provided that, the
previous owner has paid all registration fees and has complied with all
requirements of this chapter, state law and corrected any violations of
health, zoning, fire or safety codes of the city or state law. If any change
in the type of occupancy as originally registered is contemplated by the new
owner, a new registration application will be required.



(2004 Code, § 122.06)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.07  POSTING OF REGISTRATION.



   Each rental unit registration holder must post the rental unit
registration in a conspicuous spot near the front entry to the rental unit in
a public corridor, hallway or lobby, must retain a copy of the rental unit
registration on file and must be able to produce said copy upon demand.
Failure to post the registration and keep the registration posted is a
misdemeanor, and may be grounds for termination of registration.



(2004 Code, § 122.07)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.08  FEES.



   The fees for rental unit registration, registration renewal, late fees
and inspections will be set by the City Council in the ordinance adopting the
city’s fee schedule, as it may be amended by the City Council from time to
time. Failure to pay appropriate fees will result in the city assessing such
amounts to the property value through the county.



(2004 Code, § 122.08)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.09  SAFE HOUSING EDUCATION; MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.



   (A)   The city shall provide an apartment building checklist and may
facilitate access to city and state safety, health, fire and zoning codes to
interested persons. Registration holders shall provide each tenant with a
copy of the apartment building checklist at the time the tenant leases the
property. After registration and inspection, the city shall provide the owner
with the completed inspection form with an additional copy to be received and
acknowledged by the tenant.



   (B)   All records, files and documents pertaining to rental unit
registration and rental unit inspections may be obtained by the City
Administrator or his or her designee and will be available to the public as
allowed, permitted or required by state law or city ordinance.



(2004 Code, § 122.09)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.10  MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.



   Every rental unit must be maintained in compliance with the dwelling
maintenance standards, blight ordinance and noise ordinance of the city,
state nuisance statutes, state dwelling maintenance standards, State Health
Code and State Fire Code, respectively as now in force and hereafter amended,
revised or replaced, and in compliance with all other standards, ordinances,
laws and regulations governing use, occupancy, construction and maintenance
of property and conduct of persons in or on that property. Rental unit
registration does not constitute certification of compliance with such codes,
standards, ordinances or statutes by the city.



(2004 Code, § 122.10)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.11  INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.



   All inspections will be completed by the Fire Chief or his or her
designee so as all inspections will be completed in a uniform manner.



   (A)   (1)   Initial inspections of all registered properties will
occur within the first year after adoption of this chapter. Properties will
have a scheduled re-inspection on a schedule to be determined by the City
Administrator or his or her designee. All properties shall be inspected by
the city at least once every three years. The city shall have the right to
make periodic inspections of all properties based on complaints of landlords,
tenants, neighbors or other individuals. Inspection procedures for minor
complaints should be as follows:



         (a)   Tenant complaint procedure.



            1.   Verbal notification;



            2.   Notify owner in writing to describe the
deficiency;



            3.   If owner does not respond and address the
problem within a reasonable period, tenant may send a copy of the owner
notice to the city to report the deficiency;



            4.   City Inspector arranges to inspect the rental
unit; and



            5.   City Inspector notifies the owner in writing
describing the deficiency and recommended corrective action.



         (b)   Owner complaint procedure.



            1.   Verbal notification;



            2.   Notify tenant in writing to describe the
deficiency;



            3.   If tenant does not respond and address the
problem within a reasonable period, owner may send a copy of the tenant
notice to the city to report the deficiency;



            4.   City Inspector arranges to inspect the rental
unit; and



            5.   City Inspector notifies the tenant in writing
describing the deficiency and recommended corrective action.



      (2)   However, the city reserves the right to inspect
registered properties without regard to the above-suggested procedure if, in
the opinion of the City Administrator or his or her designee, the facts
underlying the complaint constitute a condition that is unsafe to persons or
property.



   (B)   Law enforcement, the City Building Official and the city’s
respective designees and representatives, are hereby authorized to make
inspections reasonably necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.



   (C)   All persons authorized herein to inspect shall have the
authority to enter, with seven days’ notice to the registration holder or
property manager any rental unit or structure containing a rental unit,
registered or required to be registered, for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter. All registration holders shall, as a condition of registration,
consent to such entries for inspection without warrant and all registration
holders shall include, as a condition of any lease or rental agreement with
any tenant or occupant, that such tenants or occupants consent to such
entries for inspection without warrant. This division (C) does not limit or
preclude any other right of entry authorized by law.



   (D)   Written notice of a violation of this ordinance may be given
to the registration holder by first class mail directed to the address of the
registration holder as shown by the Administrator’s registration
application file. The notice may contain a compliance order stating that
compliance with this chapter shall be made immediately and, in that case, the
notice shall advise the registration holder that the property may be
re-inspected at a time to be determined by the person conducting the
inspection.



   (E)   Any person who fails to comply with a compliance order and,
upon conviction therefor, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the
maximum penalties for misdemeanor crimes, together with the cost of
prosecution. Each day of such failure to comply shall constitute a separate
punishable offense.



(2004 Code, § 122.11)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.12  FAILURE TO GRANT REGISTRATION; REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR FAILURE
TO RENEW REGISTRATION.



   (A)   The city reserves the right to not register a rental unit
unless it complies with the requirements of this chapter.



   (B)   Any registration issued under this chapter is subject to the
right, which is hereby expressly reserved by the city, to deny, suspend,
revoke or not renew the same should the registration holder or their agents,
employees, representatives or lessees directly or indirectly fail to comply
with the requirements of this chapter or operate or maintain the rental
dwellings contrary to the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance of the
city or any special permit issued by the city, or the laws of the state;
provided, however, registration shall not be denied, suspended, revoked or
not renewed if the registration holder complies with a compliance order or
orders in a reasonably timely manner as determined by the City Administrator
or his or her designee.



   (C)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall notify the
applicant that registration has been denied, or the registration holder that
registration is being suspended, revoked or not renewed. The suspension,
revocation or non-renewal shall occur 35 days after the date of the
notification order, or at such later date as set out in the notification.



(2004 Code, § 122.12)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.13  SUMMARY ACTION.



   As a condition of receiving rental unit registration, each registration
holder is presumed to agree and consent that when the conduct of any
registration holder or registration holder’s agent, representative,
employee or lessee, or the condition of his or her rental unit, or the
property in or on which it is located, is detrimental to the public health,
sanitation, safety and general welfare of the community at large, or
residents of the rental units so as to constitute a nuisance, fire hazard or
other unsafe or dangerous condition and thus give rise to an emergency, the
City Administrator or his or her  designee shall have the authority to
summarily condemn or close individual rental units or such areas of the
rental dwelling as the City Administrator or his or her designee deems
necessary. Notice of summary condemnation shall be posted at the units or
areas affected and shall describe the units or areas affected. No person
shall remove the posted notice, other than the Fire Chief, City Administrator
or their designated representative.



(2004 Code, § 122.13)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.14  INTERIM HOUSING.



   As a condition of receiving a rental unit registration, the
registration holder agrees that in the event that the registration is denied,
suspended, revoked or not renewed due to the action or inaction of the
registration holder, all tenants or sub-tenants of the residential rental
unit shall be provided, at the registration holder’s expense, suitable
interim housing approved by the Fire Chief or his or her designee. The 
registration holder shall provide such interim housing until the registration
for the unit is restored or until the end of the lease term, which ever is
shorter. Failure of the registration holder to provide and/or pay for such
interim housing shall be grounds for adverse action at all rental unit
registrations the registration holder has in the city.



(2004 Code, § 122.14)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.15  APPLICABLE LAWS.



   Registration holders are subject to all of the ordinances of the city
and state relating to rental dwellings, and this chapter shall not be
construed or interpreted to supersede or limit any applicable ordinance or
law.



(2004 Code, § 122.15)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.16  VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.



   (A)   Nothing in this chapter prevents the city from taking
enforcement action under any of its fire, housing, zoning, health safety or
other codes, ordinances and state laws for violations thereof, or to seek
injunctive relief and criminal prosecution for violations of any ordinance,
code or law. Nothing contained in this chapter prevents the city from seeking
injunctive relief against a property owner or designated property manager who
fails to comply with the terms and conditions of this chapter or to obtain an
order closing such rental units until violations of this particular chapter
have been remedied by the property owner or designated property manager.



   (B)   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. Each separate day
on which a continuing violation occurs is a separate violation.



(2004 Code, § 122.16)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)  Penalty, see §
122.99



§ 122.17  WRITTEN NOTICES.



   Notices from the city required by this chapter shall be effective if
personally delivered or if mailed to the addressee by first class mail,
return receipt requested, to the address shown in the city file pertaining to
the rental unit involved in the notice.



(2004 Code, § 122.17)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.18  EFFECTIVE DATE.



   This chapter is effective upon its adoption and publication pursuant to
the city; provided, however, that, the initial registration provisions of
this chapter do not become effective until rental unit owners have completed
the process of registration. The initial registration covers a period of time
from the date of issue through 3-1-2009.



(2004 Code, § 122.18)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



§ 122.99  PENALTY.



   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter by doing any
act or omitting to do any act which constitutes a breach of any section of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof by lawful authority, be punished
by a fine not to exceed the maximum penalties for misdemeanor crimes,
together with the costs of prosecution. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate punishable offense. No provision of this chapter
designating the duties of any official or employee of the city shall be so
construed as to make such official or employee liable for the penalty
provided in this section because of failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such penalty on such official or
employee is specifically and clearly express in this section creating the
duty. All costs of prosecution will be assessed to the property owner.



(2004 Code, § 122.99)  (Ord. 07-0482, passed 2-26-2008)



CHAPTER 123:  FOOD VENDORS



Section



   123.01   Definitions



   123.02   License required



   123.03   Requirements



   123.04   Restrictions



 



   123.99   Penalty



§ 123.01  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   MOBILE FOOD CART. A non-motorized cart from which prepackaged or
ready-to-eat foods are sold to the public.



   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A self-contained vehicle or trailer used to
prepare and serve food or ice cream novelties that is readily movable without
disassembling.



(2004 Code, § 123.01)  (Ord. 13-0704, passed 3-26-2013)



§ 123.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling
items from a mobile food cart or food vehicle in the city without having
obtained the proper license therefor, except as stated herein.



(2004 Code, § 123.02)  (Ord. 13-0704, passed 3-26-2013)  Penalty, see §
123.99



§ 123.03  REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   All persons applying for a mobile food cart or food vehicle
license shall first have obtained all proper licenses from the state and
submit copies of said licenses to the city for review during license
application process.



   (B)   All mobile food cart licensees shall be properly insured
naming the city as an additional insured for liability imposed by law arising
out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such cart or vehicle in
amounts of at least $50,000 for the injury or death of one person, $100,000
for the injury or death of two or more persons and $10,000 for damage to
property.



   (C)   Licensees shall have a waste receptacle available to patrons
and are responsible for all litter and waste generated by the food cart or
food vehicle operation. No tables or chairs for customer use are permitted.



   (D)   All signage, other than one sandwich board sign as permitted
through the Planning Department shall be affixed to the food cart or food
vehicle only. Use of sandwich board signs by licensees shall be subject to
the requirements of this chapter.



   (E)   All mobile food carts or food vehicles shall prominently
display all relevant state and local licenses and permits.



   (F)   In areas where parking spaces are delineated, no food vehicle
shall occupy more than two parking spaces and shall otherwise comply with all
parking regulations.



(2004 Code, § 123.03)  (Ord. 13-0704, passed 3-26-2013)  Penalty, see §
123.99



§ 123.04  RESTRICTIONS.



   It is unlawful for any mobile food cart or food vehicle licensee to
engage in the following activities:



   (A)   To operate within 100 feet of a restaurant that is open for
service without the written consent of the restaurant owner or operator;



   (B)   To operate a food cart within 500 feet of any festival, fair
or civic event, except when authorized to do so by the event sponsor in
writing;



   (C)   To operate on public property or adjacent parking lots where a
concession stand is open and operating;



   (D)   To operate in violation of nuisance statutes or ordinances;



   (E)   To operate on any public parking lot, trail or public sidewalk
within four feet of the curb or roadway;



   (F)   To operate in such a way as to impede normal traffic flow;



   (G)   To permit smoking within 15 feet of the food cart or food
vehicle;



   (H)   To operate within five feet of any crosswalk, access ramp,
disabled parking space or in a manner that would impede access to any
adjacent business;



   (I)   To sell or distribute alcoholic beverages; and/or



   (J)   To disobey any order of the City Police Department.



(2004 Code, § 123.04)  (Ord. 13-0704, passed 3-26-2013)  Penalty, see §
123.99



§ 123.99  PENALTY.



   Violations of any portion of this section are punishable as a
misdemeanor and are grounds for the suspension or revocation of the mobile
food cart license in accordance with § 110.03 of this code of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 123.99)  (Ord. 13-0704, passed 3-26-2013)



TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES



   Chapter



      130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY



      131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS



      132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY



CHAPTER 130:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY



Section




Firearms; Other Dangerous Weapons and Articles




   130.01   “Firearms” defined



   130.02   Unlawful acts; exception



   130.03   Discharge of firearms or explosives prohibited; exception



   130.04   Bow and arrow; use restricted



   130.05   Firearms; carrying requirements; loading prohibited



   130.06   Concealed weapons prohibited



   130.07   Possession and sale of fireworks



   130.08   Permitted fireworks



   130.09   Unused refrigerators and other containers; exposure
restricted




Disorderly Conduct; Dangerous Trespasses




   130.20   Offensive use of sound amplifying equipment



   130.21   Disorderly conduct; prohibited acts



   130.22   School grounds and school buildings; unlawful acts



   130.23   Parties; noise restrictions; consent; dispersal



   130.24   Dangerous trespasses and other endangering




Prohibited Public Conduct and Property Condition Nuisances




   130.35   Findings and purpose



   130.36   Definitions



   130.37   Prohibited conduct



   130.38   Declaration and notice of public nuisance



   130.39   Access to property and responsibility to abate public
nuisance



   130.40   Failure to abate; abatement by city; assessment therefor



   130.41   Participation in unlawful gatherings



   130.42   Disorderly house and false report to public officer
prohibited



   130.43   Excessive nuisance service call



 



   130.99   Penalty




FIREARMS; OTHER DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES




§ 130.01  “FIREARMS” DEFINED.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   FIREARM. A gun that discharges shot or any projectile by means of an
explosive, gas, carbon dioxide, compressed air or other vapor, but not
pistols.



(Prior Code, § 130.01)



§ 130.02  UNLAWFUL ACTS; EXCEPTION.



   (A)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person to:



      (1)   Recklessly handle or use a gun or other dangerous weapon
or explosive so as to endanger the safety of another;



      (2)   Intentionally point a gun of any kind, capable of
injuring or killing a human being and whether loaded or unloaded, at or
toward another;



      (3)   Manufacture or sell for any unlawful purpose any weapon
known as a slung shot or sand club;



      (4)   Manufacture, transfer or possess metal knuckles or a
switchblade knife opening automatically;



      (5)   Possess any other dangerous article or substance for the
purpose of being used unlawfully as a weapon against another;



      (6)   Sell or have in his or her possession any device
designed to silence or muffle the discharge of a firearm;



      (7)   Permit, as a parent or guardian, any child under 14
years of age to handle or use, outside of the parent’s or guardian’s
presence, a firearm or air gun of any kind, or any ammunition or explosive;



      (8)   Furnish a minor under 18 years of age with a firearm,
air gun, ammunition or explosive without the written consent of his or her
parent or guardian or of the Police Department; or



      (9)   (a)   Possess, sell, transfer or have in possession
for sale or transfer, any weapon commonly known as a throwing star, nun
chuck, sharp stud or splat gun.



         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(9), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.



            NUN CHUCK. A pair of wood sticks or metallic rods
separated by chain links attached to one end of each such stick or rod.



            SHARP STUD. A circular piece of metal attached to a
wrist band, glove, belt or other material which protrudes one-fourth inch, or
more, from the material to which it is attached, and with the protruding
portion pyramidal in shape, sharp or pointed.



            SPLAT GUN. A weapon which, by means of compressed air
or gas, emits a projectile containing paint or other substance.



            THROWING STAR. A circular metallic device with any
number of points projecting from the edge.



   (B)   Exception. Nothing in division (A) above shall prohibit the
possession of the articles therein mentioned if the purpose of that
possession is for public exhibition by museums or collectors of art.



(Prior Code, § 130.02)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.03  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.



   (A)   Discharge of firearms and explosives. It is unlawful for any
person to fire or discharge any cannon, gun, pistol or other firearm,
firecracker, sky rocket or other fireworks (except as permitted in § 130.08
of this chapter), air gun, air rifle or other similar device commonly
referred to as a BB gun.



   (B)   Exception.



      (1)   Nothing in division (A) above shall apply to a display
of fireworks by an organization or group of organizations authorized in
writing by the Council, or to a peace officer in the discharge of his or her
duty, or to a person in the lawful defense of his or her person or family.



      (2)   This section shall not apply to the discharge of
firearms in a range authorized in writing by the Council.



(Prior Code, § 130.03)  (Ord. 02-317, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.04  BOW AND ARROW; USE RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and arrow, except in the
physical education program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty,
a community-wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the
Chief of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council.



(Prior Code, § 130.04)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.05  FIREARMS; CARRYING REQUIREMENTS; LOADING PROHIBITED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
or within a motor vehicle on a street or highway any firearm unless:



      (1)   It is unloaded and in a case expressly made to contain a
firearm that fully encloses the firearm by being zipped, snapped, buckled,
tied or otherwise fastened, and without any portion of the firearm exposed; or



      (2)   It is unloaded and in the closed trunk of a motor
vehicle.



   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
any firearm or pistol while on another person’s private property without
the consent of the owner or person in control of that property.



(Prior Code, § 130.05)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.06  CONCEALED WEAPONS PROHIBITED.



   It is unlawful for any person to have concealed on or about his or her
person, or be in possession of, any dangerous weapon, except persons
authorized to carry a pistol under M.S. § 624.714, as it may be amended from
tome to time.



(Prior Code, § 130.06)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.07  POSSESSION AND SALE OF FIREWORKS.



   It is unlawful for any person to sell, possess or have in possession
for the purpose of sale, except as allowed in § 130.03(A) of this chapter
and as permitted in § 130.08 of this chapter, any firecrackers, sky rockets
or other fireworks. Fireworks seized under the provisions of the Uniform Fire
Code shall be rendered harmless by placing same in plastic bags or pails and
adding one cup of water to approximately each two pounds of fireworks.
Properly documented wet fireworks may still be used as evidence in a safe
manner. After wet fireworks are no longer needed for evidence, the Fire
Marshal shall be contacted for final disposition.



(Prior Code, § 130.07)  (Ord. 02-317, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.08  PERMITTED FIREWORKS.



   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      FIREWORKS. As defined in M.S. § 624.20(1)(c), as it may be
amended from time to time, or any superseding statute.



   (B)   Permit required. No person shall sell or possess for sale
fireworks without first having obtained an annual permit from the city.



      (1)   The Fire Chief shall give final approval or denial of an
application for the manufacture, storage for commercial purposes or sale of
fireworks within 14 days of the permit application being made to the city.



      (2)   Permits shall be issued for a period of one calendar
year.



      (3)   Prior to processing the application, a criminal records
check must be conducted. Neither the applicant nor the responsible party for
the permit shall have been convicted of a felony or a fire- or
fireworks-related misdemeanor within the last three years.



      (4)   Prior to processing the application, the Fire Chief
shall determine that the proposed location is code compliant.



      (5)   The application shall include a letter from the person
legally responsible for the property on which the fireworks-related activity
will occur. The letter shall grant permission to the applicant for the use of
the property.



   (C)   Sales and storage of fireworks.



      (1)   No person shall sell or store fireworks within 50 feet
of any fuel dispensing apparatus.



      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any seller of any fireworks to
permit smoking inside or within 50 feet of the consumer fireworks retail
sales area. “No Smoking” signs must be conspicuously posted and approved
fire extinguishers must be available for use.



      (3)   In buildings that do not have an automated sprinkling
system, retail sales displays of fireworks shall be limited to a gross weight
of 250 pounds of pyrotechnic composition or 25% of the gross weight if the
weight of pyrotechnic is not known. In buildings that do contain an automated
sprinkling system, the amount of fireworks contained in retail sales displays
shall be determined by the City Fire Chief on a case by case basis after
considering the building’s construction, fire suppression apparatus and
other relevant factors.



      (4)   The requirements of this section are in addition to any
requirements imposed by any building and zoning regulations, fire codes (MSFC
Ch. 33 and NFPA 1124) or state law (M.S. § 624.20, as it may be amended from
time to time).



      (5)   Only persons 18 years of age and older may purchase
fireworks, and the age of the purchaser must be verified by photographic
identification.



      (6)   Exterior storage, display, sales or transient sales of
fireworks are permitted subject to a site plan review. Site plans shall be
submitted for review through the conditional use permit process as identified
in § 154.175 of this code of ordinances. Conditional use permits will only
be considered within commercial or industrial zoning districts. Additionally,
tents, canopies or membrane structures must comply with MSFC Ch. 24.



      (7)   No manufacturing, sales or storage for commercial
purposes shall occur on residentially zoned property or within 100 feet
thereof.



      (8)   No person shall construct a retail display nor offer for
sale explosives, explosive materials or fireworks upon highways, sidewalks,
public properties, properties used for educational purpose or assemblies.



      (9)   A list of all consumer fireworks displayed and stored on
the property shall be available at all times. The list shall document the
name, weight and quantity of the fireworks and be accompanied by the material
safety data sheets.



      (10)   A handout describing fireworks shall be provided to
each consumer purchasing fireworks.



   (D)   Use and possession.



      (1)   It is unlawful to use, fire or discharge any fireworks
along the route of and during any parade, in any place of public assembly on
any public property or in any commercial/industrial zoning district.



      (2)   It is unlawful at any time to throw, toss or aim any
fireworks at any person, animal, vehicle or other thing or object or to use
fireworks in any manner that may threaten or cause possible harm to life or
property.



      (3)   The discharge of fireworks shall be prohibited inside a
building and within 15 feet of any building.



      (4)   It shall be unlawful to ignite, discharge or otherwise
use fireworks within 300 feet of a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
or store. At least one sign shall be conspicuously posted on the exterior of
each side of the consumer fireworks retail sales facility stating: “No
fireworks discharge within 300 feet”.



      (5)   No motor vehicle shall be parked within ten feet of a
consumer fireworks retail sales facility.



      (6)   The Fire Chief may ban fireworks if dry or windy
conditions occur.



      (7)   Juveniles may not possess fireworks unless under the
direct supervision of a responsible adult.



      (8)   Fireworks may not be discharged in a manner that may
create a nuisance, nor between the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Fireworks
shall also be subject to any additional ordinances such as noise and/or
assembly areas.



      (9)   Officers may seize illegal fireworks. The State Fire
Marshal or designee, Sheriff’s officer, police officer, constable, Fire
Chief or Fire Official shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed, at
the expense of the owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or
exposed for sale, stored or held in violation of this division (D).



   (E)   Violations; remedies.



      (1)   Materials which violate and/or pose a threat to public
safety may be confiscated and destroyed. Costs associated with disposal shall
be assessed back to the property owner or permit holder.



      (2)   Violations of this regulation, city ordinance or state
statute may result in revocation of the permit.



(Prior Code, § 130.08)  (Ord. 02-316, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. 04-370, passed
3-9-2004)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.09  UNUSED REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER CONTAINERS; EXPOSURE RESTRICTED.



   It is unlawful for any person, being the owner or in possession or
control thereof, to permit an unused refrigerator, ice box or other
container, sufficiently large to retain any child and with doors which fasten
automatically when closed, to expose the same accessible to children, without
removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.



(Prior Code, § 130.09)  Penalty, see § 130.99




DISORDERLY CONDUCT; DANGEROUS TRESPASSES




§ 130.20  OFFENSIVE USE OF SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT.



   It is unlawful for any person, whether in a public or private place, to
play or permit to be played any AM/FM radio receiving set, tape player,
stereo, phonograph or other machine or device capable of producing or
reproducing amplified sound, from which offensive sound emanates. It is prima
facie evidence that the amplified sound is offensive if it can be clearly
heard from a distance of 50 feet. The owner or person in control of a sound
producing device shall immediately abate the sound when ordered to do so by a
peace officer.



(Prior Code, § 130.20)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.21  DISORDERLY CONDUCT; PROHIBITED ACTS.



   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person, in a public or private place,
knowing or having reasonable grounds to know that it will, or will tend to,
alarm, anger or disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace,
to do the following:



   (A)   Engage in brawling or fighting;



   (B)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character;



   (C)   Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in
boisterous and noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or
resentment in others;



   (D)   Willfully and lewdly expose his or her person or the private
parts thereof, or procure another to so expose himself or herself; and any
open or gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency;



   (E)   Expectorate on streets, sidewalks or other public property, or
urinate or defecate in a place other than:



      (1)   If on public property, then in a plumbing fixture
provided for that purpose;



      (2)   If on the private property of another, then in a
plumbing fixture provided for that purpose; or



      (3)   If on private property not owned or controlled by
another, then within a building.



   (F)   Cause the making or production of an unnecessary noise by
shouting or by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of any
automobile or other vehicle horn, and also including amplification of radio
or other sound or signal;



   (G)   Use a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or
endanger others;



   (H)   Cause defacement, destruction or otherwise damage to any
premises or any property located thereon;



   (I)   Strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or deposit any
refuse, garbage or rubbish onto any premises except into receptacles provided
for that purpose;



   (J)   Enter any motor vehicle of another without the consent of the
owner or operator; or



   (K)   Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any premises after being
requested or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner or
person in charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent or official;
provided, however, that, this provision shall not apply to any person who is
owner or tenant of the premises involved nor to any law enforcement or other
government official who may be present thereon at that time as part of his or
her official duty, nor shall it include the spouse, children, employee or
tenant of the owner or occupier.



(Prior Code, § 130.21)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.22  SCHOOL GROUNDS AND SCHOOL BUILDINGS; UNLAWFUL ACTS.



   (A)   Defacement of school buildings. It is unlawful for any person
to mark with ink, paint, chalk or other substance, or post handbills on, or
in any other manner deface or injure any school building or structure used or
usable for school purposes, or mark, deface or injure fences, trees, lawns or
fixtures appurtenant to or located on the site of this type of building, or
post handbills on those fences, trees or fixtures, or place a sign anywhere
on any of these sites.



   (B)   Breach of peace on school grounds. It is unlawful for any
person to willfully or maliciously make or assist in making on any school
grounds adjacent to any school building or structure any noise, disturbance
or improper diversion or activity by which peace, quiet and good order shall
be disturbed.



   (C)   Offensive language and conduct. It is unlawful for any person
to use offensive, obscene or abusive language or engage in boisterous or
noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others on any school grounds or in buildings or structures.



   (D)   Improper conduct while school in session. It is unlawful for
any person, in any school room or in any building or on the grounds adjacent
to the same, to disturb or interrupt the peace and good order of the school
while in session. It is also unlawful for any person, not in immediate
attendance in that school and being in that building or upon the premises
belonging thereto, to conduct or behave himself or herself improperly. It is
also unlawful for any person, upon the request of a teacher of that school or
the person in charge thereof to leave the building or premises, to neglect or
refuse so to do.



   (E)   Loitering. It is unlawful for any person to loiter on any
school grounds or in any school building or structure.



(Prior Code, § 130.22)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.23  PARTIES; NOISE RESTRICTIONS; CONSENT; DISPERSAL.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to congregate on any
private lands because of, or participate in, any party or gathering of people
from which noise emanates of a sufficient volume or of a nature so as to
disturb the peace, quiet or repose of other persons. Any owner or person in
lawful possession or control of these private lands who has knowledge of the
disturbance and fails to immediately abate the disturbance shall be guilty of
a violation of this section.



   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to
congregate on any private lands of another because of, or participate in, any
party or gathering of people in the absence of the owner of the private lands
being present, without first having obtained written permission from the
landowner or other person in lawful possession of those private lands.



      (2)   This written permission shall at all times be in the
possession of one or more persons at the site of the congregation. The
document containing the written permission must bear the signature of the
landowner and date of the permitted use.



      (3)   Failure to display written permission upon request shall
be considered prima facie evidence of an absence of permission from the owner.



   (C)   (1)   A violation of divisions (A) or (B) above shall give
a peace officer the authority to order all persons present, other than
persons identifying themselves as the owner or person in lawful possession or
control of the land, to immediately disperse.



      (2)   Any person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered
to do so by a peace officer shall be guilty of a violation of this section.



(Prior Code, § 130.23)  Penalty, see § 130.99



§ 130.24  DANGEROUS TRESPASSES AND OTHER ENDANGERING.



   (A)   Dangerous acts and trespasses prohibited. It is a petty
misdemeanor for any person to:



      (1)   Smoke in the presence of explosives or flammable
materials, or in a building or area in which “No Smoking” notices have
been prominently posted;



      (2)   Interfere with or obstruct the prevention or
extinguishing of any fire, or disobey the lawful orders of a law enforcement
officer or firefighter present at the fire;



      (3)   Show a false light or signal or interfere with any
light, signal or sign controlling or guiding traffic upon a highway, railway
track or navigable water;



      (4)   Place an obstruction upon a railroad track;



      (5)   Expose another or another’s property to an obnoxious
or harmful gas, fluid or substance, with intent to injure, molest or coerce;



      (6)   Trespass or permit animals under his or her control to
trespass upon a railroad track;



      (7)   Permit domestic animals or fowl under his or her control
to go upon the lands of another within the city;



      (8)   Interfere unlawfully with any monument, sign or pointer
erected or marked to designate a point of a boundary line or a political
subdivision, or a tract of land;



      (9)   Trespass upon the premises of another, and without claim
of right refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor;



      (10)   Enter or be found upon the premises of any enclosed or
fenced public property without authorization during hours the enclosed or
fenced public property is posted as closed to the public;



      (11)   Occupy or enter the dwelling of another, without claim
of right, consent of the owner or the consent of one who has the right to
give consent, except in an emergency situation;



      (12)   Enter the premises of another with intent to take or
injure any fruit, fruit trees or vegetables growing thereon without the
permission of the owner or occupant; or



      (13)   Without the permission of the owner, tamper with or get
into or upon a motor vehicle, or ride in or upon a motor vehicle knowing it
was taken and is being driven by another without the permission of the owner.



   (B)   Trespassing on land following notice.



      (1)   No person shall intentionally trespass on the land of
another and, without claim of right, refuse to depart therefrom on demand of
lawful possessor thereof or his or her agent. A demand to depart may be made
as follows:



         (a)   Orally, or in writing, by the lawful possessor or
the possessor’s agent;



         (b)   By conspicuously posting, at reasonable intervals,
signs which prohibit trespass on the affected land; or



         (c)   By conspicuously posting, at reasonable intervals,
signs which prohibit trespass on the affected land during certain hours.



      (2)   No person who has received a written demand to depart
pursuant to division (B)(1)(a) above shall reenter the lawful possessor’s
land without the written permission of the lawful possessor or the agent
providing that demand, for a period of up to one year from the date of the
written demand, as provided therein.



      (3)   A second offense of this section within one year from
the date of the first offense will be a misdemeanor.



(Prior Code, § 130.24)  (Ord. 95-133, passed 2-14-1995)  Penalty, see §
130.99



PROHIBITED PUBLIC CONDUCT AND PROPERTY CONDITION NUISANCES



§ 130.35  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit certain conduct that is
harmful to the health, safety and welfare of the community and to prevent and
abate nuisance conduct, events, characteristics or conditions and their
deleterious effects on city neighborhoods by maximizing the means and methods
by which public officers can efficiently and effectively enforce the law and
by imposing and collecting service call fees from the owner or occupant, or
both, of real property to which public officers are repeatedly called to
respond to nuisance violations as set forth in this subchapter. The City
Council finds that excessive noise, disruption and other public nuisance
activities are injurious to the public health, safety and welfare and
interfere with the quiet enjoyment of life and property and that excessive
nuisance service calls unduly divert law enforcement resources from general
crime prevention and law enforcement. The excessive nuisance service call fee
is intended as a cost recovery mechanism for excessive law enforcement
services, over and above the cost of normal law enforcement services to the
public, attributable to unabated nuisance conduct, conditions or
characteristics occurring, maintained or permitted to exist on the private
property. It is not intended to constitute punishment separate from or in
addition to any criminal prosecution for the conduct underlying the nuisance
or excessive nuisance service calls. Nothing herein is meant to limit
constitutional rights under the federal or state constitution.



(2004 Code, § 130.30)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)



§ 130.36  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ABATEMENT NOTICE. Notice served upon property owner and/or interested
party by the City Administrator or the Administrator’s designee of law
enforcement responses to two or more nuisance service calls within a 365-day
period on property in which they have an interest pursuant to § 130.38(C) of
this chapter.



   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by
volume.



   CLANDESTINE LAB SITE. Any structure of conveyance or outdoor location
occupied or affected by conditions or chemicals typically associated with the
manufacture of methamphetamine or any other unlawful manufacture of a
controlled substance.



   DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any residential property which due to the following
nuisance conduct, events, characteristics or conditions is likely to disturb,
injure or endanger the peace, comforts, health, welfare, safety or character
of the neighborhood or community:



      (1)   The unlawful sale, furnishing, use or possession of
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in violation of state law or Ch. 112
of this code of ordinances;



      (2)   The possession or use of gambling devices or the conduct
of any gambling in violation of state law;



      (3)   Prostitution in violation of state law or acts relating
to prostitution, or the conduct of unlicensed escort services,
sexually-oriented business or massage or massage services, in violation of
state law or Ch. 119 and 121 of this code of ordinances;



      (4)   The unlawful sale, use, or possession of controlled
substances as defined in M.S. § 152.02, as it may be amended from time to
time; or



      (5)   Three or more verified incidents or unlawful gatherings,
as defined in this section within a 365-day period.



   FALSE REPORT TO PUBLIC OFFICER. A report to any public officer that a
violation of city code or state law has been committed, knowing that the
conduct or conditions reported do not constitute a crime or that the report
is false and intending that the public officer act in reliance upon the
report.



   INCIDENT. Single behavioral incident as defined by M.S. § 609.035, as
it may be amended from time to time. In the case of property conditions or
characteristics constituting a nuisance, a single behavioral INCIDENT
constitutes those violations, the existence of which is the result of a
single illegal objective or coincident errors of judgment.



   INTERESTED PARTY. Any known lessee or tenant of the residential
property or affected portion of the residential property; any known agent of
an owner, lessee or tenant; any known mortgage holder  or holder of any
secured interest in the residential property; any known person holding an
unrecorded contract for deed, being a mortgagee or vendee in physical
possession of the residential property, insurer of the property; or, any
other person who maintains or permits a nuisance on the residential property
and is known to the city.



   NUISANCE INCIDENT NOTICE. Notice served upon property owner and/or
interested party by the City Administrator or the Administrator’s designee
of a law enforcement response to a nuisance service call to property in which
they have an interest pursuant to § 130.43(A) of this chapter.



   NUISANCE SERVICE CALL. Public officer response to a verified incident
of any activity, conduct or condition occurring on private property that is
likely to unreasonably interfere with the quiet enjoyment of neighboring
properties or the safety, health, morals, welfare, comfort or repose of the
residents therein, including, without limitation:



      (1)   Unlawful gathering, as defined in this section;



      (2)   Disorderly conduct, as defined by M.S. § 609.72, as it
may be amended from time to time;



      (3)   Assault, as defined by M.S. §§ 609.221, 609.222,
609.223, 609.2231 and 609.224, as they may be amended from time to time,
excluding domestic assaults;



      (4)   Public nuisance, as defined by § 130.37(B) of this
chapter or M.S. §§ 609.74 through 609.745, as they may be amended from time
to time;



      (5)   Noise in violation of § 130.23(A) of this chapter;



      (6)   Unlawful consumption of alcoholic beverages in violation
of Ch. 112 of this code of ordinances;



      (7)   The unlawful furnishing, sale, use, or possession of
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in violation of state law or Ch. 112
of this code of ordinances;



      (8)   The possession or use of gambling devices or the conduct
of any gambling in violation of state law;



      (9)   Prostitution in violation of state law or acts relating
to prostitution, or the conduct of unlicensed escort services, sexually
oriented business or massage or massage services, in violation of state law
or Ch. 119 and 121 of this code of ordinances;



      (10)   The unlawful sale, use or possession of controlled
substances as defined in M.S. § 152.02, as it may be amended from time to
time;



      (11)   Indecent exposure in violation of M.S. § 617.23, as it
may be amended from time to time;



      (12)   Unlawful use or possession of a firearm in violation of
state law or this chapter;



      (13)   Failure to comply with dangerous dog requirements in
violation of Ch. 93 of this code of ordinances or M.S. Ch. 347, as it may be
amended from time to time;



      (14)   Failure to comply with animal noise regulations in
violation of Ch. 93 of this code of ordinances;



      (15)   Failure to restrain a domestic animal in violation of
Ch. 93 of this code of ordinances;



      (16)   Cruelty to animals in violation of Ch. 93 of this code
of ordinances;



      (17)   Illegal possession of a wild animal in violation of Ch.
93 of this code of ordinances;



      (18)   Unlicensed dog in violation of Ch. 93 of this code of
ordinances;



      (19)   Illegal open burning, in violation of Ch. 92 of this
code of ordinances;



      (20)   Illegal refuse, in violation of Ch. 92 of this code of
ordinances;



      (21)   Illegal litter, in violation of Ch. 130 of this code of
ordinances;



      (22)   Abandoned or junk vehicles, in violation of Ch. 91 of
this code of ordinances;



      (23)   Illegal exterior storage in violation of Ch. 92 of this
code of ordinances;



      (24)   Illegal parking or storage of recreational vehicles in
violation of Ch. 73 of this code of ordinances;



      (25)   Parking or storage of vehicles within a city street
right-of-way or in violation of Ch. 72 of this code of ordinances;



      (26)   False report to public officer in violation of §
130.42 of this chapter;



      (27)   Rental of a dwelling unit without a license or in
violation of the conditions of licensure in violation of this subchapter; and



      (28)   Illegal home occupation in violation of Ch. 154 of this
code of ordinances.



   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property the legal ownership of which, as
officially recorded by the county, is held by one or more natural persons, a
partnership, including a limited partnership, a corporation, including a
foreign, domestic or non-profit corporation, a trust or any other
organization, but not including the state or any of its political
subdivisions, the federal government or any other governmental agency or
entity. The existence of any public easement, right-of-way or other limited
right of access on the property shall not, for the purpose of this chapter,
be deemed to transform PRIVATE PROPERTY to public property.



   PROPERTY. A parcel or contiguous parcels of real property, including
buildings and other structures thereon owned by the same legal entity and
under common management. In the case of multi-unit residential or commercial
property, the term shall apply to the entire complex.



   PUBLIC OFFICER. A police officer, Fire Marshal, Chief or Inspector,
Animal Control Officer, City Zoning Official, Building Inspector or
Environmental Health Inspector, each of whom, for the purposes of this
chapter, shall be considered law enforcement officers.



   PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view, including
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
automobiles (whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public,
including those buildings in which food or drink is served or entertainment
or lodging is provided.



   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any real property containing a structure suitable
for affording shelter for human beings, including any appurtenant or
connected structure, including trailers, mobile homes, multiple-family
dwellings, buildings containing multiple dwelling units, and any property
situated within a residential zoning district as defined by the city code.



   UNLAWFUL GATHERING. Any party or gathering where there is any of the
following conduct or behavior:



      (1)   The unlawful sale, furnishing, use or possession of
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in violation of state law and Ch. 112
of this code of ordinances;



      (2)   The unlawful sale, use or possession of controlled
substances as defined in M.S. § 152.02, as it may be amended from time to
time;



      (3)   The unlawful sale, use or possession of tobacco-related
products in violation of state law or Ch. 113 of this code of ordinances;



      (4)   Any conduct, activity or condition constituting a
violation of state laws or this city code prohibiting or regulating
prostitution, gambling, firearms, disorderly conduct, public nuisance or
permitting a public nuisance; and/or



      (5)   Any conduct or activities likely to disturb
non-participating persons by:



         (a)   Noise of sufficient volume, or of such nature by
virtue of its type, persistence, time of day or location, to disturb; the
peace, quiet, or repose of non-participating persons nearby in the manner and
according to the standards set forth in Ch. 92 and/or Ch. 130 of this code of
ordinances;



         (b)   Assaultive behavior;



         (c)   Unlawful consumption of alcoholic beverages or
possession of open containers of alcohol in violation of Ch. 112 of this code
of ordinances;



         (d)   Urinating in public;



         (e)   Public indecency, as defined in this chapter, or
indecent exposure, in violation of M.S. § 617.23, as it may be amended from
time to time;



         (f)   Excessive pedestrian or vehicular traffic and
parking problems or congestion; and/or



         (g)   Harassment of passers-by.



   VERIFIED INCIDENT. An incident where there is a law enforcement
response and a public officer, having completed a timely investigation, is
able to find evidence of nuisance conduct, conditions or characteristics as
set forth in the definition for “nuisance service call” defined in this
section. It shall not be necessary that criminal charges be brought or
convictions obtained relative to the incident. Multiple offenses verified
during a single response shall count as one response for the purpose of
imposing an excessive nuisance call service fee. VERIFIED INCIDENTS shall be
attributable separately to the source of the nuisance conduct, condition or
activity, as follows:



      (1)   The same tenant or lessee or persons acting in
conjunction with or under the control the same tenant or lessee;



      (2)   The same rental unit while occupied by the same tenant
or lessee or within two or more rental units by the same tenant or lessee; and



      (3)   The property owner or persons acting in conjunction with
or under the control of the property owner who either actively participated
in the creation of the nuisance conduct, condition or characteristic or who
knew or should have known of the ongoing nuisance conduct, condition or
characteristic and failed to take reasonable steps to abate it.



   VERIFIED INCIDENT FOLLOW-UP. Where there has been a prior verified
incident of property conditions or characteristics constituting a nuisance,
each subsequent response to those same conditions or characteristics
initiated by the city as follow-up during a course of remediation, shall not
constitute an additional verified incident unless additional nuisance
conditions or characteristics constituting additional incidents are found to
exist.



(2004 Code, § 130.31)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)



§ 130.37  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.



   (A)   Public nuisance prohibited. Any person who shall knowingly
commit, cause or create a public nuisance condition as defined in this
chapter or permits a public nuisance condition to be created or placed upon
or to remain upon any private property owned, under the control of or
occupied by that person, or any publicly-owned property, including
tax-forfeited property under public control, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition, the city may enforce this section by injunctive
action or other appropriate civil remedy.



   (B)   Property conditions constituting a public nuisance. The
following property conditions are declared to be nuisances affecting public
peace, welfare and safety:



      (1)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks
within 12 hours after the snow and ice has ceased to be deposited thereon;



      (2)   All limbs of trees which are less than eight feet above
the surface of any public sidewalk, or nine feet above the surface of any
street;



      (3)   All wires that are strung less than 15 feet above the
surface of the ground;



      (4)   All buildings, walls and other structures which have
been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to an extent exceeding one-half
their original value, and which are so situated as to endanger the safety of
the public;



      (5)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous
substances stored in any manner or in any amount contrary to state law,
federal law or this code;



      (6)   All use or display of fireworks, except as permitted by
this code and state law;



      (7)   Noises prohibited under this city code;



      (8)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to repeatedly
fall from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow
across any sidewalk;



      (9)   All barbed wire fences which are located within three
feet of any public sidewalk;



      (10)   All dangerous unguarded machinery or materials in any
public place or so situated or operated on private property to attract the
public;



      (11)   Any condition that interferes with, obstructs or
renders dangerous for passage a public sidewalk, roadway, highway or
right-of-way or waters used by the public;



      (12)   The intentional or negligent discharge of items such as
leaves, grass clippings, solvents, antifreeze, oil, fireplace ashes, paint or
cement resonate into a street, storm sewer system or water resource such as a
wetland, creek, pond or lake;



      (13)   Encroachments onto publicly-owned property and road
right-of-way, including tax-forfeited property under public control,
including, but not limited to, the placement of structures, materials,
recreational equipment vehicles, lawn chairs, fire pits, the dumping of
organic materials, the storing of privately-owned items, the undertaking of
activities affecting the physical nature of the property, such as mowing,
vegetation removal or the application of fertilizer, pesticides or herbicides
without the express, written permission of the city;



      (14)   (a)   Construction materials and equipment
(including, but not limited to, piles of dirt, rock, landscaping materials,
sod, scaffolding, forms, dumpsters, portable toilets, debris and construction
trailers) left in the open:



            1.   On a single-family or two-family residential
site beyond one year after issuance of a permit or commencement of the
construction project, whichever occurs first. A construction project is
considered to commence when the first exterior evidence of the project is
visible (for example, delivery of materials or removal of soil cover); and



            2.   On a multi-family residential site or on a
non-residential site beyond 180 days after issuance of the first temporary or
permanent certificate of occupancy.



         (b)   In the case of demonstrated hardship due to
sources beyond the control of the property owner (including, but not limited
to, extreme weather conditions; reasonably unforeseen material, equipment or
labor shortages; vandalism; or theft), the time allowed for exterior
construction and finishes may be extended at the sole discretion of the
Planning/Zoning/Building Director upon written appeal filed as soon as the
need for an extension becomes known.



      (15)   Discarded construction material or other litter at a
construction site that is not placed in an adequate waste container or that
is allowed to blow around or off the site;



      (16)   Buildings, fences and other structures that have been
so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance detract
from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances because
they are unsightly, decrease adjoining landowners’ and occupants’
enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, adversely affect property
values and neighborhood patterns and endangers public safety. Standards to be
considered in this determination shall include:



         (a)    All exterior walls shall be free from holes,
breaks and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weather-proof and
properly surface coated where required to prevent deterioration;



         (b)   All exterior surfaces, including, but not limited
to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks
and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces,
other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and
decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking
and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and the
perimeter of windows, doors and skylights shall be maintained
weather-resistant and water-tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or
corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces
with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust
and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces.
Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this
requirement;



         (c)   Every window, skylight, door and frame shall be
kept in sound condition, good repair and weather-tight. All glazing materials
shall be maintained free from cracks and holes;



         (d)   All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware
shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling
units, rooming units and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door;



         (e)   All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in
good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition;



         (f)   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit precipitation. Roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the
structure. Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good
repair and free from obstructions. Roof water may not be discharged in a
manner that creates a public nuisance;



         (g)   All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally sound, and in good
repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment; and



         (h)   All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.



      (17)   A clandestine lab site;



      (18)   Improper sewage disposal to such degree that sewage or
effluent is discharging onto the surface of the ground, backing up into a
structure or discharging into a body of water;



      (19)   An unsecured hole or opening caused by improperly
abandoned cistern, well pit, sewage treatment system, unused or
non-maintained swimming pool, foundation, mine shaft or tunnel, or any other
hole or opening in the ground of sufficient size or depth to pose a danger to
the public or an attractive nuisance;



      (20)   Failure to keep waste, refuse or garbage in an enclosed
building or properly contained in a closed, insect- and rodent-proof
container designed or reasonably adapted for such purpose, except for the
immediate time preceding pick-up by a refuse hauler;



      (21)   Accumulation of carcasses of animals, birds or fish by
failing to bury or otherwise dispose of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours
after death. This provision shall not apply if the animals, birds or fish are
intended for human consumption;



      (22)   Accumulation of decaying animal or vegetable matter,
animal or human feces, trash, rubbish, garbage, rotting lumber, packing
material, scrap metal, tires or any other substances in which flies,
mosquitoes, other disease carrying insects, rodents or other vermin can
harbor; this definition does not include compost bins or compost sites which
are being managed in accordance with acceptable standards;



      (23)   Accumulations of animal feces, rubbish or junk
remaining in any place as to become dangerous or injurious to the health and
safety of any individual or to the public;



      (24)   Accumulations in permanent dwellings to such an extent
preventing emergency egress;



      (25)   Any structure that has become dangerous for further
occupancy because of structural or sanitary defects or grossly unsanitary
conditions;



      (26)   Infestations of flies, fleas, cockroaches, lice, rats,
mice, fly larvae or hookworm larvae;



      (27)   Unnatural breeding grounds which support mosquito
larvae and mosquitoes carrying West Nile Virus, La Crosse Encephalitis Virus
or any other disease causing microorganism;



      (28)   Parking of an excess number of vehicles in violation as
defined by Ch. 92 of this code of ordinances; and



      (29)   Accumulation of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation in
violation of §§ 92.035 through 92.043 of this code of ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 130.32)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.38  DECLARATION AND NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.



   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator or the
Administrator’s designee to determine and declare the existence of a public
nuisance. However, for purposes of inspecting and securing the site, removing
and collecting evidence, or removing immediate hazards, any public officer
may determine that a structure, property or portion of a property constitutes
a public nuisance, including, but not limited to, the determination that the
site constitutes a clandestine lab site. The City Administrator or the
Administrator’s designee may at any time modify conditions of the
declaration or dismiss the declaration of a public nuisance. Where deemed
necessary by the city in furtherance of the public health and safety, a
warning sign shall be posted on the entrance to the structure or property
containing information sufficient to alert visitors or returning occupants to
the site that it may be dangerous to enter and that entry is prohibited
unless authorized by the city. No person, except as authorized by the city,
shall remove a warning sign posted in accordance with this section. Where a
public nuisance is found to exist upon private property, the City
Administrator, or the Administrator’s designee, may cause a declaration of
public nuisance and notice to abate such nuisance to be served personally
upon the owner of said premises, and provide a copy thereof to any other
interested party. Such notice may be served by mail in all cases where such
owner or other interested party is not in the city or cannot be found
therein, and if the post office address thereof is known. Such notice may
likewise be served by posting, for at least 24 hours, a copy of such notice
upon the premises where the nuisance exists, whenever the owner or agent
thereof is not known or cannot be found, and the post office address thereof
is unknown.



   (B)   The City Administrator, or the Administrator’s designee,
shall, in providing for the service and posting of such notice, designate
therein the following:



      (1)   Property location by street address, and property
identification number or legal property description;



      (2)   Information identifying the nature of the public
nuisance on the property;



      (3)   A summary of the owner or other interested party’s
responsibilities under this section;



      (4)   Specific orders for abatement or remediation of the
public nuisance;



      (5)   A date for completion of the abatement not less than ten
business days following the receipt of the notice unless a shorter period of
time is determined necessary by the city to protect the public health and
safety;



      (6)   Notice that unless the public nuisance condition is
abated or removed in accordance with the terms of the notice of public
nuisance, the city may, in its discretion have the nuisance abated or removed
at the expense of the owner under the provisions of M.S. § 145A.08, as it
may be amended from time to time, this city code or other applicable law and
that the cost thereof will constitute a charge against the property which
shall be collected in the manner of a tax; and



      (7)   Notice of the right of appeal as provided in this
section.



(2004 Code, § 130.33)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.39  ACCESS TO PROPERTY AND RESPONSIBILITY TO ABATE PUBLIC NUISANCE.



   (A)   General. The owner or other interested party of private
property on which a public nuisance has been declared must, upon the demand
of a public officer, permit access to all portions of the property and
structures thereon at any reasonable time for the purposes of inspection,
remediation and abatement as often as the public officer deems necessary and
shall exhibit and allow the copying of all records necessary to ascertain
compliance with this section. Any public nuisance upon privately-owned
property shall be removed and abated by the owner or other interested party
at their own cost after notice, as provided in § 130.38 of this chapter. If
such notice is not complied with, the city shall cause removal or abatement
of such nuisance, and the cost thereof shall be charged against the property
in the manner provided in § 130.40 of this chapter and collected in the
manner set forth in § 130.40 of this chapter.



   (B)   Appeals, summary abatement. When a public nuisance is
declared, the owner of the private property may appeal the declaration,
including an order for abatement, by filing a written request for a hearing
with the City Attorney’s Office within ten calendar days of the issuance of
the notice of public nuisance. A hearing shall be held within 30 calendar
days thereafter, and may be conducted by the City Administrator or his or her
designee. The owner of the property may be held responsible for the actual
costs of the hearing. If, as a result of the appeal, the existency of the
public nuisance is sustained, the owner of the private property shall abate
the nuisance as directed by the City Administrator’s appeal order. If the
order of the City Administrator is not complied with, the city may abate said
nuisance as provided in § 130.40 of this chapter. Where a declared public
nuisance constitutes, in the sole determination of the city, an imminent
threat to the public health or safety, an immediate threat of serious
property damage or the nuisance has been caused by the actions of private
parties on public property, the city may order the immediate abatement
thereof notwithstanding this provision. Where there has been summary
abatement, any properly filed appeal thereafter will be limited to the issue
of cost recovery by the city.



(2004 Code, § 130.34)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.40  FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY CITY; ASSESSMENT THEREFOR.



   If, at the end of the period fixed by the city for the abatement or
removal of a public nuisance, the nuisance has not been abated or removed by
the owner or other interested party and no appeal has been filed pursuant to
§ 130.39(A) of this chapter, the city may cause the same to be abated or
removed by the city or in any other manner deemed appropriate, including the
demolition of buildings as provided for in M.S. § 463.16, as it may be
amended from time to time, and the costs and expenses of such abatement and
departmental costs and expenses, including overheads and allowances for time
of city employees, expenses of equipment, if used, and sums of money
necessarily paid out if done by other than city departments, shall be
computed and reported to the City Council. Thereupon, the City Council shall
adopt an assessment roll levying a special assessment upon such lands and
premises, which shall be transmitted to the County Auditor and included with
the next tax levy upon such lands and premises and collected in the manner
provided by law for the levy and collection of other special assessments.



(2004 Code, § 130.35)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.41  PARTICIPATION IN UNLAWFUL GATHERINGS.



   (A)   No person shall congregate because of, or participate in, any
unlawful gathering, as defined in § 130.36 of this chapter.



   (B)   No person shall keep or permit an unlawful gathering, as
defined in § 130.36 of this chapter, on any property owned, leased,
controlled or occupied by that person.



   (C)   Any person who is the property owner or other interested party
in the property, who has actual or imputed knowledge of an unlawful gathering
thereon and who fails to immediately abate the unlawful gathering shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.



   (D)   A police officer may order all persons present at any public
or private place or building where an unlawful gathering is occurring to
immediately disperse.



   (E)   Any person, other than the property owner, tenant or person in
control of a building, who refuses to leave an unlawful gathering thereon
after being ordered to do so by a police officer or by an owner, tenant or
person in control of any building or other interested party in the property
where an unlawful gathering is occurring shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



   (F)   A police officer, who has probable cause to believe an
unlawful gathering is occurring on private property, may make reasonable
entry onto the property or structure thereon in a manner consistent with law
for the purpose of investigating suspected law violations.



   (G)   Any person who is the property owner, tenant or person in
control of a building and refuses to admit public officers attempting to gain
reasonable access to the premises, in a manner consistent with law, for the
purpose of investigating a suspected unlawful gathering on the property or
any structure thereon or refuses to disperse an unlawful gathering at the
building after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.



(2004 Code, § 130.36)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.42  DISORDERLY HOUSE AND FALSE REPORT TO PUBLIC OFFICER PROHIBITED.



   It shall constitute a misdemeanor under state law to do the following:



   (A)   To keep, permit or be present in a disorderly house; as
defined in § 130.36 of this chapter;



   (B)   Be an owner or person in control of any residential property
and to permit the building to be used as a disorderly house; and/or



   (C)   To provide a false report to any public officer.



(2004 Code, § 130.37)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.43  EXCESSIVE NUISANCE SERVICE CALL.



   (A)   Nuisance incident notice. Where the City Administrator or the
Administrator’s designee determines that a specific premises or building is
being operated in violation of § 130.42 of this chapter, or public officers
have been dispatched to private property on a nuisance service call, as
defined in § 130.36 of this chapter, the City Administrator or the
Administrator’s designee may issue a written nuisance incident notice to
the owner of the property, and may provide a copy thereof to any other
interested parties. The nuisance incident notice may be served upon the owner
of said premises by regular mail, to the address determined by the most
recent property tax records maintained by the county for said premises. The
service of a nuisance incident notice, as provided herein, shall be prima
facie evidence that an owner or interested party in control of a building has
knowledge of and has permitted subsequent conduct or behavior at said
premises.



   (B)   Contents of the notice. The nuisance incident notice shall:



      (1)   Identify the type and specific location of nuisance
service call(s), including tenant or lessee names where applicable;



      (2)   Summarize the evidence of the nuisance occurring on the
property;



      (3)   Provide the dates on which the nuisance calls for
service were made and the dates of any prior responses by public officers to
nuisance incidents on the property; and



      (4)   Warn the owner, occupant and persons in control of the
property that future nuisance service calls may subject them jointly and
severally to an excessive nuisance service call fee in the amount of $250 or
more, up to $2,000, based upon the actual cost of the law enforcement
response.



   (C)   Abatement notice. Where the City Administrator or
Administrator’s designee determines that public officers have been
dispatched to two or more nuisance service calls, as defined in § 130.36 of
this chapter and counted pursuant to verified incident and verified incident
follow-up as defined in § 130.36 of this chapter, to the same property
within a 365-day period, he or she shall cause a written abatement notice to
issue to the owner of the property, and may provide a copy thereof to any
interested parties. The abatement notice may be served upon the owner of said
premises by regular mail, to the address determined by the most recent
property tax records maintained by the county for said premises. The service
of an abatement notice, as provided herein, shall be prima facie evidence
that an owner or interested party served has knowledge of and has permitted
subsequent conduct or behavior at said premises.



   (D)   Contents of the abatement notice. The abatement notice shall:



      (1)   Identify the type and specific location of nuisance
service calls, including tenant or lessee names, where applicable;



      (2)   Summarize the evidence of the nuisance occurring on the
property;



      (3)   Provide the dates on which the nuisance service calls
were made and the dates of any prior



responses by public officers to nuisance incidents on the property;



      (4)   Warn the owner and interested parties that future
nuisance service calls will subject them jointly and severally to an
excessive nuisance service call fee in the amount of $250 or more, based upon
the actual cost of the law enforcement response, up to $2,000, for each
separate call. The costs of providing the excess law enforcement services
shall include without limitation the gross salaries, including all fringes,
benefits and overhead paid to the public officers responding, the pro rata
cost of all equipment, including vehicles and K-9 officers, and the cost of
repairs to any city equipment or property damaged in responding to the
nuisance service call. The civil penalty will issue by the city and if left
unpaid will be charged against the property and collected in the manner of a
tax; and



      (5)   Advise the owner and interested parties that subsequent
conduct in violation of this section may also subject them jointly and
severally to criminal charges punishable by up to a $1,000 fine and 90 days
in jail for each separate violation.



   (E)   Imposition of excessive nuisance service call fee. Property
owners, tenants and other persons having control over a property shall be
jointly and severally responsible for nuisance incidents occurring thereon
and individually responsible for payment of any nuisance service call fee
issued to that party hereunder. Where an abatement notice was properly served
upon the owner and/or tenant of the property as set forth in division (C)
above each successive nuisance service call within the same 365-day period
shall result in a fee to that party in the amount of $250 or more based upon
the actual cost of the law enforcement response, up to $2,000 for each
separate call. The costs of providing the excess law enforcement services
shall include without limitation the gross salaries, including all fringe
benefits and overhead paid to the public officers responding, the pro rata
cost of all equipment, including vehicles and K-9 officers, and the cost of
repairs to any city equipment or property damaged in responding to the
nuisance service call.



   (F)   Affirmative defenses. In the case of rental property, it shall
constitute an affirmative defense to the issuance of an excessive nuisance
service call fee by administrative citation that the property owner has
commenced eviction proceedings against the tenant or tenants responsible for
the nuisance conduct, conditions or characteristics. In the case of large
public accommodations, it shall constitute an affirmative defense to the
issuance of an excessive nuisance service call fee by administrative citation
that the property owner or the owner’s property manager has entered into
and complied with a memo of understanding with regard to security with the
City Police Department.



   (G)   Appeal. Any party issued an excessive nuisance service call
fee by administrative citation may appeal the citation by filing a written
request for a hearing with the City Attorney’s Office within ten  calendar
days of the issuance of the citation. A hearing shall be held within 30
calendar days thereafter and may be conducted by the City Administrator or
his or her designee. The owner of the property may be held responsible for
the actual costs of the hearing.



(2004 Code, § 130.38)  (Ord. 09-0521, passed 9-22-2009)  Penalty, see §
130.99



§ 130.99  PENALTY.



   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code
of ordinances.



   (B)   Violations of § 130.08 of this chapter are misdemeanor
offenses punishable by fines up to $1,000 and/or 90 days in jail.



(Prior Code, § 130.08)



   (C)   A violation of §§ 130.35 through 130.43 of this chapter
shall be a misdemeanor under state law. Civil penalties shall be subject to
assessment according to state law. However, nothing in this division (B)
shall be construed to limit the city’s other available legal remedies for
any violation of the law, including licensing sanctions, criminal, civil and
injunctive actions. The provisions herein do not limit the application of any
other state law or rule or city ordinance. In addition, violations or failure
to pay civil fines may result in future license ineligibility.



(2004 Code, § 130.39)



(Ord. 02-316, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. 04-370, passed 3-9-2004; Ord. 09-0521,
passed 9-22-2009)



CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS



Section



   131.01   Curfew for minors



   131.02   Unlawful use and furnishing of tobacco



   131.03   Indecent publications, pictures or articles; unlawful
display



 



   131.99   Penalty



§ 131.01  CURFEW FOR MINORS.



   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:



      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors
committed during the curfew hours;



      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail
during the curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;



      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs
during the curfew hours; and



      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.



   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens
the health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s
household. The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking
urgent medical treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or
Fire Department personnel and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent
assistance from a utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.



      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to
the master clock used by the Police Department.



      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.



      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible
for providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the
minor. The person providing PRIMARY CARE or CUSTODY to the minor shall not be
another minor.



      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school
calendar by public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned
event.



   (C)   Hours.



      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age
of 16 years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in
or upon places of amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any
vacant lot, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day,
official city time.



      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages
of 16 or 17 years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in
or upon places of amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any
vacant lot, between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following
day, official city time.



   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until
the curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the
control of the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.



   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in
the following situations:



      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian,
or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;



      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the
direction of his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
primary care and custody of the minor;



      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this
section if in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a
lawful business, trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling
directly to or from the location of the business trade, profession or
occupation and the minor’s residence. Minors who fall within the scope of
this exception shall carry written proof of employment and proof of the hours
the employer requires the minor’s presence at work;



      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an event which has been officially designated as a school activity
by public or parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or
traveling directly to or from an official activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by the city, a civic organization, school, religious institution or
similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor and with the
permission of the minor’s parent, guardian or other adult person having the
primary care and custody of the minor;



      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course
of interstate travel during the hours of curfew;



      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or
from an activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free
speech, freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;



      (7)   To a minor on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence
or abutting the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not
complain to the city’s designated law enforcement provider about the
minor’s presence; or



      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is
otherwise legally emancipated.



   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent,
guardian or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall
permit any violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.



   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of
any place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor
to enter or remain in his or her place of business during the hours
prohibited by this section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her
parent, guardian or other adult person having primary care or custody of the
minor, or unless one of the exceptions to this section apply.



   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this
section that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was
present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused
to leave.



(2004 Code, § 131.01)  Penalty, see § 131.99



§ 131.02  UNLAWFUL USE AND FURNISHING OF TOBACCO.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to use
or be in possession of tobacco in any form.



   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to furnish tobacco, by any
manner or means and in any form, to any person under the age of 18 years.



(2004 Code, § 131.02)  Penalty, see § 131.99



§ 131.03  INDECENT PUBLICATIONS, PICTURES OR ARTICLES; UNLAWFUL DISPLAY.



   (A)   Unlawful display. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
display to view at newsstands or any other business establishment frequented
by minors under the age of 18 years, or where these minors are or may be
invited as a part of the general public, any book, pocket book, pamphlet or
magazine, the cover of which exploits, is devoted to or is principally made
up of descriptions or depictions of illicit sex or sexual immorality, or
which is lewd, lascivious or indecent, or which consists of pictures of nude
or partially denuded figures posed or presented in a manner to provoke or
arouse lust or passion or to exploit sex, lust or perversion for commercial
gain, or any article or instrument of indecent or immoral use, unless that
book, pocket book, pamphlet or magazine shall be wrapped in an opaque
material with only the title of the book, pocket book, pamphlet or magazine
visible.



   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      DESCRIPTIONS OR DEPICTIONS OF ILLICIT SEX OR IMMORALITY.



         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;



         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or
sodomy; or



         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human
genitals, pubic region, buttock or female breast.



      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the character of the publication
or failure on notice to exercise reasonable inspection which would disclose
the character of the same.



      NUDE OR PARTIALLY DENUDED FIGURES.



         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic areas, buttock and female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; or



         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state,
even if completely and opaquely covered.



(2004 Code, § 131.03)  Penalty, see § 131.99



§ 131.99  PENALTY.



   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for
which no other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in
§ 10.99 of this code.



   (B)   Curfew penalties.



      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of § 131.01
of this chapter may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the
dispositional alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260B.198, as it may be
amended from time to time.



      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
131.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



   (C)   Unlawful display of indecent publications. Any person in
violation of § 131.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.



(2004 Code, § 131.99)



CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY



Section




Obstructions on Public Property




   132.01   Permit required



   132.02   Fires; permit required



   132.03   Dumping prohibited



   132.04   Signs and other structures; permit required



   132.05   Snow and ice; dumping prohibited



   132.06   Continuing violations



   132.07   Permit conditions




Excavations and Mining




   132.20   Purpose



   132.21   Definitions



   132.22   Unlawful excavation; permit requirement



   132.23   Permit application fee; conditions



   132.24   Exceptions




Bad Checks




   132.40   Issuance of worthless check prohibited



   132.41   Proof of intent



   132.42   Notice; proof of lack of funds



   132.43   Exceptions



   132.44   Definition



OBSTRUCTIONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY



§ 132.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, display or offer for
sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over, across or under any
public property without first having obtained a written permit from the
Council, and then only in compliance in all respects with the terms and
conditions of that permit, and taking precautionary measures for the
protection of the public. An electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby
included, but not by way of limitation, within the definition of an
obstruction.



(2004 Code, § 132.01)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.02  FIRES; PERMIT REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a fire upon public
property, except where expressly permitted with signs authorizing fires.



(2004 Code, § 132.02)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.03  DUMPING PROHIBITED.



   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on public property
any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded cloth or clothing, metal
scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or paper products, shreds
or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or to empty any water
containing salt or other injurious chemicals thereon. It is a violation of
this subchapter to place or store any building materials or waste resulting
from building construction or demolition on public property without first
having obtained a written permit from the Council.



(2004 Code, § 132.03)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.04  SIGNS AND OTHER STRUCTURES; PERMIT REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to place or maintain a sign,
advertisement or other structure on public property without first having
obtained a written permit from the Council.



(2004 Code, § 132.04)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.05  SNOW AND ICE; DUMPING PROHIBITED.



   It is unlawful for any person not acting under a contract with the city
to dump snow or ice on public property.



(2004 Code, § 132.05)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.06  CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.



   Each day that any person continues in violation of this subchapter
shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.



(2004 Code, § 132.06)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.07  PERMIT CONDITIONS.



   Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of this
subchapter, the Council may impose insurance or bonding conditions thereon as
it, considering the projected danger to public or private property or to
persons, deems proper for safeguarding those persons and property. This
insurance or bond shall also protect the city from any suit, action or cause
of action arising by reason of the obstruction.



(2004 Code, § 132.07)




EXCAVATIONS AND MINING




§ 132.20  PURPOSE.



   The purposes of this subchapter are:



   (A)   To prevent any interruption of or damage to utilities; and



   (B)   To prevent unsightly or hazardous holes in the earth’s
surface.



(2004 Code, § 132.20)  (Ord. 02-308, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 03-352, passed
8-12-2003)



§ 132.21  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   EXCAVATING. The act of constructing an excavation.



   EXCAVATION. The construction or maintenance of a hole in the earth’s
surface more than 18 inches in depth (measured from the surface adjoining the
excavation on any side thereof) or more than five feet in length or width.



   EXCAVATOR. Any persons or entity holding themselves out as an EXCAVATOR
or who engages in the business of removing or dislodging soil from the earth
for hire, whether working as a contractor or subcontractor.



   MINING. Excavating for the purpose of removing any rock, sand, gravel
or any other aggregate or soil or soil products with the intent to not return
them to the excavation so made.



(2004 Code, § 132.21)  (Ord. 02-308, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 03-352, passed
8-12-2003)



§ 132.22  UNLAWFUL EXCAVATION; PERMIT REQUIREMENT.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to construct or maintain an
excavation on private property or public property which is not owned or under
the control of the city, without a written permit from the city.



   (B)   All applications for a permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the city, and all permits shall be issued on conditions as will protect
persons and property from damage or injury.



(2004 Code, § 132.22)  (Ord. 02-308, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 03-352, passed
8-12-2003)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.23  PERMIT APPLICATION FEE; CONDITIONS.



   (A)   No application shall be considered until the applicant has
paid a fee which includes the cost of any investigation deemed necessary by
the city.



   (B)   The city may impose conditions on any permit for the
protection of persons and property and to assure completion of the excavation
including filling and dressing the surface.



   (C)   The city may require a cash or surety bond in an amount as the
city deems reasonable to assure compliance with the conditions of the permit.



   (D)   (1)   The city reserves the right to suspend, revoke or
deny any permit involving excavation for any reasonable reason including, but
not limited to, the failure to obtain proper permits from the city,
non-compliance with conditions of the permit, utilities services
interruptions or having a history of Building Code or permit violations with
the city by the permittee or the excavator hired by the permittee.



      (2)   The decision to suspend, revoke or deny a permit may be
appealed in writing within five days of the adverse permitting decision to
the City Council who shall hear such appeal within 15 days of receiving the
written request to appeal.



(2004 Code, § 132.23)  (Ord. 02-308, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 03-352, passed
8-12-2003)



§ 132.24  EXCEPTIONS.



   No permit shall be required for stripping sod from the earth’s
surface.



(2004 Code, § 132.24)  (Ord. 02-308, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 03-352, passed
8-12-2003)




BAD CHECKS




§ 132.40  ISSUANCE OF WORTHLESS CHECK PROHIBITED.



   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to issue any check or other
order for the payment of money which, at the time of issuance, he or she
intends shall not be paid.



(2004 Code, § 132.40)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 132.41  PROOF OF INTENT.



   Any of the following is evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that
the person, at the time he or she issued the check or other order for the
payment of money, intended it should not be paid:



   (A)   Proof that, at the time of issuance, the issuer did not have
an account with the drawee;



   (B)   Proof that, at the time of issuance, the issuer did not have
sufficient funds or credit with the drawee and that he or she failed within
five business days after mailing of notice of non-payment or dishonor to pay
the check or other order; or



   (C)   Proof that, when presentment was made within a reasonable
time, the issuer did not have sufficient funds or credit with the drawee and
that he or she failed within five business days after mailing of notice of
non-payment or dishonor to pay the check or other order.



(2004 Code, § 132.41)



§ 132.42  NOTICE; PROOF OF LACK OF FUNDS.



   (A)   Notice. Notice of non-payment or dishonor shall be sent by the
payee or holder of the check to the maker or drawer by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the address of record. Refusal by the maker or drawer
of the check to accept certified mail notice shall not constitute a defense
that notice was not received.



   (B)   Proof of lack of funds or credit. If the check or other order
for the payment of money has been protested, the notice of protest thereof is
admissible as proof of presentation, non-payment and protest, and is evidence
sufficient to sustain a finding that there was a lack of funds or credit with
the drawee.



(2004 Code, § 132.42)



§ 132.43  EXCEPTIONS.



   This subchapter does not apply to a post-dated check or to a check
given for a past consideration, except a payroll check or a check issued to a
fund for employee benefits.



(2004 Code, § 132.43)



§ 132.44  DEFINITION.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   CREDIT. An arrangement or understanding with the drawee for the payment
of the check or other order for the payment of money to which this subchapter
applies.



(2004 Code, § 132.44)



TITLE XV: LAND USAGE



   Chapter



      150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION



      151.   AIRPORT ZONING



      152.   SHORELAND MANAGEMENT



      153.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL



      154.   ZONING



      155.   ANTI-BLIGHT REGULATIONS



      156.   TRUNK HIGHWAY 7 ACCESS MANAGEMENT OVERLAY



      157.   RIVER OVERLAY DISTRICT



CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION



Section




Building Code




   150.001   Minnesota State Building Code adopted by reference




Building Permits




   150.015   Permit fees



   150.016   Building permit required



   150.017   Plumbing permit required



   150.018   Demolition permit required



   150.019   Excavation permit required



   150.020   Moving buildings; permit requirements




Standards and Requirements




   150.035   Building address numbers



   150.036   Remote-type water meters required



   150.037   Foundation requirement




Unsafe Buildings




   150.050   Application



   150.051   Definitions



   150.052   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition



   150.053   Hazardous building a nuisance



   150.054   Application administration and enforcement




Property Maintenance




   150.065   2006 International Property Maintenance Code adopted by
reference




BUILDING CODE




§ 150.001  MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.



   (A)   Codes adopted by reference. The Minnesota State Building Code,
as adopted by the Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. §§
326B.101 to 326B.194, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations
established, adopted and published from time to time by the State
Commissioner of Labor and Industry, through the Building Codes and Standards
Unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the optional
chapters, unless specifically adopted in this section. The Minnesota State
Building Code is hereby incorporated in this section as if fully set out
herein.



   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement. The application,
administration and enforcement of the code shall be in accordance with the
Minnesota State Building Code. The Code shall be enforced within the
extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121(1), as it may be
amended from time to time, when so established by ordinance. The Code
enforcement agency of the municipality is called the Building Enforcement
Department of the city. This Code shall be enforced by the state certified
Building Official designated by the municipality to administer the code as
set forth in M.S. § 326B.133(1), as it may be amended from time to time.



   (C)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection
of fees shall be as authorized in M.S. § 326B.121(1), as it may be amended
from time to time. Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this
Code in accordance with the fee schedule, as it may be amended by City
Council from time to time,  adopted by the municipality. In addition, a
surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by
this Code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended from time
to time.



   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the Code is a
misdemeanor as set forth in M.S. § 326B.082, Subd. 16, as it may be amended
from time to time.



   (E)   Building Code optional chapters. The Minnesota State Building
Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 to 326B.194, as they may be
amended from time to time, allows the municipality to adopt by reference and
enforce certain optional chapters of the most current edition of the
Minnesota State Building Code. The city has not adopted any of the optional
provisions identified in the most current edition of the Minnesota State
Building Code.



(2004 Code, § 150.01)  (Ord. 98-242, passed 11-24-1998; Ord. 99-258, passed
6-22-1999; Ord. 2000-285, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 02-307, passed 3-26-2002;
Ord. 03-341, passed 5-13-2003; Ord. 07-0466, passed 7-24-2007)




BUILDING PERMITS




§ 150.015  PERMIT FEES.



   (A)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 326B.153, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (B)   (1)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by
this code in accordance with the fee schedule, as it may be amended by the
City Council from time to time, adopted by the municipality by ordinance.



      (2)   In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all
permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. §
326B.148, as it may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 150.15)  (Ord. 03-341, passed 5-13-2003)



§ 150.016  BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove or convert any building or structure, or any
part or portion thereof, including, but not limited to, the electrical,
ventilating, heating or air conditioning systems therein, or cause the same
to be done, without first obtaining a separate building or mechanical permit
for each building, structure or mechanical components from the city.



(2004 Code, § 150.16)  (Ord. 03-341, passed 5-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 150.017  PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person to install, alter, repair or extend any
plumbing system without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city and
paying the required fees.



(2004 Code, § 150.17)  (Ord. 03-341, passed 5-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 150.018  DEMOLITION PERMIT REQUIRED.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to demolish or cause to be
demolished any building or structure without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the city. Application for this permit shall be made at least
ten days prior to commencement of the demolition, together with payment of
the required fee and deposit.



   (B)   It is the responsibility of the party holding the demolition
permit to complete the following:



      (1)   The removal of all resulting debris, including, but not
limited to, foundations, footings, floor slabs, chimneys and stairs, and the
transportation and deposition of this material in an appropriate licensed
landfill; and



      (2)   The termination of utility service in a manner and form
satisfactory to the City Utilities Commission and the City Engineer, pursuant
to then applicable city policy.



(2004 Code, § 150.18)  (Ord. 94-121, passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 03-341, passed
5-13-2003)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 150.019  EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED.



   It is unlawful for any person, except a city employee acting within the
course and scope of his or her employment or a contractor acting within the
course and scope of a contract with the city, to make any excavation, opening
or tunnel in, over, across or upon a street or other public or private
property without first obtaining a permit from the city, and paying the
required fees.



(2004 Code, § 150.19)  (Ord. 03-341, passed 5-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 150.020  MOVING BUILDINGS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      COMBINED MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on both a
street and a highway.



      HIGHWAY. A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is a
state trunk highway, county state-aid highway or county road.



      HIGHWAY MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a highway
for which a fee is charged which does not include route approval, but does
include regulation of activities which do not involve the use of the highway;
which activities include, but are not limited to, repairs or alterations to a
municipal utility required by reason of that movement.



      MOVING PERMIT. A document allowing the use of a street or highway
for the purpose of moving a building.



      STREET. A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is not
a state trunk highway, county state-aid highway or county road.



      STREET MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a street for
which a fee is charged which does include route approval, together with use
of the street and activities including, but not limited to, repairs or
alterations to a municipal utility required by reason of that movement.



   (B)   Application. The application for a moving permit shall state
the dimensions, weight and approximate loaded height of the structure or
building proposed to be moved, the places from which and to which it is to be
moved, the route to be followed, the dates and times of moving and parking,
the name and address of the mover and the municipal utility and public
property repairs or alterations that will be required by reason of that
movement. In the case of a street moving permit or combined moving permit,
the application shall also state the size and weight of the structure or
building proposed to be moved and the street alterations or repairs that will
be required by reason of that movement.



   (C)   Permit and fee.



      (1)   The moving permit shall state date or dates of moving,
hours, routing, movement and parking.



      (2)   Permits shall be issued only for moving buildings by
building movers licensed by the state, except that a permit may be issued to
a person moving his or her own building, or a person moving a building which
does not exceed 16 feet in width, 24 feet in length or 14 feet in loaded
height.



      (3)   Fees to be charged shall be separate for each of the
following:



         (a)   A moving permit fee to cover use of streets and
route approval; and



         (b)   A fee equal to the anticipated amount required to
compensate the city for any municipal utility and public property (other than
streets) repairs or alterations occasioned by the movement.



      (4)   All permit fees shall be paid in advance of issuance.



   (D)   Building permit and code compliance. Before any building is
moved from one location to another within the city, or from a point of origin
without the city to a destination within the city, regardless of the route of
movement, it shall be inspected and a building permit shall have been issued
for at least the work necessary to bring it into full compliance with the
State Building Code.



   (E)   Violations.



      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any
street without a moving permit from the city.



      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any
highway without a highway moving permit from the city.



      (3)   It is unlawful to move any building (including a
manufactured home) if the point of origin or destination (or both) is within
the city, and regardless of the route of movement, without having paid in
full all real and personal property taxes, special assessments and municipal
utility charges due on the premises of origin and filing written proof of
payment with the city.



(2004 Code, § 150.20)  (Ord. 03-341, passed 5-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99




STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS




§ 150.035  BUILDING ADDRESS NUMBERS.



   Every owner or occupant of lots with buildings constructed thereon for
purposes of dwelling, business or other use shall cause numbers to be placed
in those buildings in accordance with specifications and directions adopted
by the Council and on file in the office of the City Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 150.30)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 150.036  REMOTE-TYPE WATER METERS REQUIRED.



   In all new construction using one-inch size water meter or smaller,
remote-type water meters shall be installed at the expense of the owner.



(2004 Code, § 150.31)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 150.037  FOUNDATION REQUIREMENT.



   In addition to provisions for foundations in Ch. 154 of this code,
regarding zoning, the foundations shall be placed upon frost-free footings.



(2004 Code, § 150.32)  Penalty, see § 10.99




UNSAFE BUILDINGS




§ 150.050  APPLICATION.



   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined to be
substandard, as defined in this subchapter, are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in M.S. §§ 463.15 et
seq., as they may be amended from time to time, related to hazardous and
substandard buildings.



(2004 Code, § 150.80)  (Ord. 90-23, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 03-341, passed
5-13-2003)



§ 150.051  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   BUILDING. As defined in M.S. Ch. 463, as it may be amended from time to
time, and shall include any structure or part of a structure. BUILDING may
include, but is not limited to, any structure designed for human habitation.



   HAZARDOUS BUILDING.



      (1)   Any building which, because of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, physical damage, unsanitary condition or abandonment,
constitutes a fire hazard to public safety and health; and



      (2)   Any building or structure which has any or all of the
following defects shall be deemed a HAZARDOUS BUILDING:



         (a)   One whose interior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of
its base;



         (b)   One which, exclusive of the foundation, shows 33%
or more damage or deterioration of the supporting member or members or 50%
damage or deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or
covering;



         (c)   One which has improperly distributed loads upon
the floors or roofs, or in which the same are overloaded, or which has
insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;



         (d)   One which has been damaged by fire, wind or other
causes so as to have become dangerous to life, safety or the general health
and welfare of the occupants or the people of the city;



         (e)   One which has become or is so dilapidated,
decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or which so utterly fails to provide the
amenities essential to decent living that it is unfit for human habitation,
or is likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the
health, safety or general welfare of those occupying or using the same;



         (f)   One having light, air and sanitation facilities
which are inadequate to protect the health, safety or general welfare of
human beings who live or may live therein;



         (g)   One having inadequate facilities for egress in
cases of fire or panic;



         (h)   One which has parts thereof which are so attached
that they may fall and injure members of the public or property;



         (i)   One which, because of its condition, is unsafe,
unsanitary or dangerous to the health, safety or general welfare of the
people of the city;



         (j)   A building existing in violation of any provision
of any ordinance of the city relating to the construction of buildings or the
installation therein or thereon of heating, plumbing or electrical equipment,
appliances or devices; and/or



         (k)   A building which is only partially completed and
which because of incomplete condition is unfit for the uses for which it was
designed and intended; provided, the building or structure has been left in
an uncompleted condition for more than one year, and the owner thereof has
failed during that time to renew his or her building permit or furnish the
Director of Inspections with information upon which the Director or the City
Council may determine that the building or structure will be completed within
a reasonable time thereafter; any such building or structure is deemed an
abandoned uncompleted building or structure and a HAZARDOUS BUILDING, within
the terms of this subchapter, if the building is constructed of inflammable
materials and is sufficiently close to adjacent buildings to constitute a
fire hazard; if the building or structure is left open so it may be
frequented by children or by persons with criminal intentions; or if any
portion of the building is liable to deterioration so as to be seriously
detrimental to values of property in the vicinity.



   OWNER, OWNER OF RECORD and LIEN HOLDER OF RECORD. Persons having a
right of interest in the property where the hazardous building is located.
Evidence of that interest must be filed and recorded in the office of the
County Recorder.



   STRUCTURE. As defined in M.S. Ch. 463, as it may be amended from time
to time, and shall include any structure or part of a structure.



(2004 Code, § 150.81)  (Ord. 90-23, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 03-341, passed
5-13-2003)



§ 150.052  STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.



   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Director
of Inspections or Fire Marshal and the City Council in ordering repair,
vacation or demolition.



   (A)   If the hazardous building can reasonably be repaired so that
it will no longer constitute a hazardous building under this subchapter, it
shall be ordered repaired.



   (B)   If the hazardous building is in a condition so as to make it
hazardous to the health, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it shall
be ordered to be vacated.



   (C)   In any case where a hazardous building is 50% damaged or
decayed, or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be
demolished, and in all cases where a hazardous building cannot be repaired so
that it will no longer exist as a hazardous building under the terms of this
subchapter, it shall be demolished.



(2004 Code, § 150.82)  (Ord. 90-23, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 03-341, passed
5-13-2003)



§ 150.053  HAZARDOUS BUILDING A NUISANCE.



   All hazardous buildings within the terms of § 150.051 of this chapter
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated or
demolished as hereinbefore and hereinafter provided.



(2004 Code, § 150.83)  (Ord. 90-23, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 03-341, passed
5-13-2003)



§ 150.054  APPLICATION ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.



   (A)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code
shall be in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 1300, as it may be amended from
time to time.



   (B)   The code enforcement agency of the municipality is called the
Building/Zoning/Planning Department.



   (C)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the state-certified
Building Official designated by the municipality to administer the Code (M.S.
§ 326B.133, as it may be amended from time to time).



(2004 Code, § 150.84)  (Ord. 90-23, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 03-341, passed
5-13-2003)



PROPERTY MAINTENANCE



§ 150.065  2006 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.



   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the
Office of the City Administrator, being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition, or its successor, as
published by the International Code Council and adopted by the State Fire
Marshal, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the
city for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential
to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use;
and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy
and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms
of said Property Maintenance Code on file in the office of the city are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed.



   (B)   If any division, sentence, clause or phrase of this section
is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The City
Council hereby declares that it would have passed this section, and each
division, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional.



   (C)   Nothing in this section or in the Property Maintenance Code
hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending
in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or
causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby
repealed; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by this section.



(2004 Code, § 150.90)  (Ord. 08-0499, passed 4-22-2008)



CHAPTER 151: AIRPORT ZONING



Section




General Provisions




   151.01   Purpose and authority



   151.02   Jurisdiction



   151.03   Definitions



   151.04   Airport Zoning Map




Airspace Obstruction Zoning




   151.15   Airspace zones



   151.16   Height restrictions



   151.17   Boundary limitations




Land Use Safety Zoning




   151.30   Safety zone boundaries



   151.31   Use restrictions



   151.32   Boundary limitations




Non-Conforming Uses; Variances




   151.45   Existing non-conforming uses; grandfather clause



   151.46   Construction; certificate of compliance required



   151.47   Non-conforming uses; abandonment or destruction



   151.48   Variances



   151.49   Hazard marking and lighting




Administration and Enforcement




   151.60   Airport Zoning Compliance Administrator



   151.61   Board of Adjustment



   151.62   Appeals



   151.63   Judicial review



   151.64   Violations; remedies



   151.65   Amendment procedure



   Appendix A: Municipal Airport Zoning; Affected Land



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 151.01  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.



   The city, county and Hassan Valley and Lynn Townships Joint Airport
Zoning Board, created and established by joint action of the City Council,
the Board of County Commissioners and the Town Boards of Hassan Valley and
Lynn Townships pursuant to the provisions and authority of M.S. § 360.063,
as it may be amended from time to time, hereby finds and declares that:



   (A)   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of
the Municipal Airport, and property or occupants of land in its vicinity, and
also if of the obstructive type, in effect reduces the size of the area
available for the landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending
to destroy or impair the utility of the Municipal Airport and the public
investment therein;



   (B)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Municipal Airport;



   (C)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare, and for the promotion of the
most appropriate use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or
establishment of airport hazards;



   (D)   The prevention of these airport hazards should be
accomplished, to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police
power without compensation; and



   (E)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport
hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation or marking and
lighting of existing airport hazards are public purposes for which political
subdivisions may raise and expend public funds.



(2004 Code, § 151.01)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.02  JURISDICTION.



   The sections of land affected by this chapter are indicated in App. A
to this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 151.02)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   AIRPORT. The Municipal Airport located in all or part of Sections 12
and 13 of Lynn Township.



   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on
the usable landing area which elevation is established to be 1,060 feet above
the mean sea level.



   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft
in landing or taking off at the airport; and any use of land which is
hazardous to persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.



   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a
residence or sleeping place of one or more persons.



   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the HEIGHT limits in all zones
set forth in this chapter and shown on the Airport Zoning Map, the datum
shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.



   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off
or taxiing of aircraft.



   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment hereto.



   NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or planned
straight-in approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance, and for which no precision approach facilities are
planned or indicated on an approved planning document.



   PLANNED. Refers only to those proposed future airport developments that
are so indicated on a planning document having the approval of the Federal
Aviation Administration, the Department of Transportation, Division of
Aeronautics, and the city.



   RUNWAY. Any existing or planned paved surface or turf-covered area of
the airport which is specifically designated and used or planned to be used
for the landing or taking off of aircraft.



   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio
of horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude (e.g., SLOPE = 3:1 = three feet
horizontal to one foot vertical).



   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitations, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission
lines.



   TRAVERSE WAYS. For the purpose of determining height limits as set
forth in this chapter, the limit shall be increased in height by 17 feet for
interstate highways; 15 feet for all other public roadways; ten feet or the
height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse the road,
whichever is greater, for private roads; 23 feet for railroads; and for
waterways and all other TRAVERSE WAYS not previously mentioned, an amount
equal to the height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse
it.



   TREE. Any object of natural growth.



   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be
used by propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and
less.



   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft
using visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument approach
procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an approved planning
document.



   WATER SURFACES. The same meaning as LAND for the establishment of
protected zones in this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 151.03)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.04  AIRPORT ZONING MAP.



   The several zones herein established are shown on the Municipal Airport
Zoning Map consisting of three sheets, prepared by Toltz, King, Duvall,
Anderson and Associates, Inc., and dated 1-12-1984, which map, together with
amendments thereto as may from time to time be made, and all notations,
references, elevations, data, zone boundaries and other information thereon,
shall be and the same is hereby adopted as part of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 151.04)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)




AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING




§ 151.15  AIRSPACE ZONES.



   (A)   In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, as set
forth above, the following airspace zones are hereby established: primary
zone, horizontal zone, conical zone, approach zone, precision instrument
approach zone and transitional zone.



   (B)   The locations and dimensions of these zones are as follows:



      (1)   Primary zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary primary surface longitudinally centered on the runway and extending
200 feet beyond each end of Runway 15-33. The elevation of any point on the
primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest points on the
runway centerline. The width of the primary surface is 500 feet for Runway
15-33;



      (2)   Horizontal zone. All that land which lies directly under
an imaginary horizontal surface 150 feet above the established airport
elevation, or a height of 1,210 feet above mean sea level, the perimeter of
which is constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of
each end of the primary surface of the runway and connecting the adjacent
arcs by lines tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is 6,000 feet for
Runway 15-33;



      (3)   Conical zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary conical surface extending upward and outward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000
feet as measured radially outward from the periphery of the horizontal
surface;



      (4)   Approach zone. All that land which lies directly under
an imaginary approach surface longitudinally centered on the extended
centerline at each end of a runway. The inner edge of the approach is at the
same width and elevation as, and coincides with, the end of the primary
surface. The approach surface inclines upward and outward at a slope of 40:1
for Runway 15-33. The approach surface expands uniformly to a width of 3,500
feet for Runway 15-33 at a distance of 10,000 feet to the periphery of the
conical surface; and



      (5)   Transitional zone. All that land which lies directly
under an imaginary surface extending upward and outward at right angles to
the runway centerline and centerline extended at a slope of 7:1 from the
sides of the primary surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces
until they intersect the horizontal surface or the conical surface.



(2004 Code, § 151.15)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.16  HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.



   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and except as
necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree shall be
constructed, altered, maintained or allowed to grow in any airspace zone
created in § 151.15 of this chapter, so as to project above any of the
imaginary airspace surfaces described in § 151.15 of this chapter.



   (B)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation,
the more restrictive limitations shall prevail.



(2004 Code, § 151.16)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.17  BOUNDARY LIMITATIONS.



   For the purpose of promoting health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity, general welfare and for conserving property values and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land, the city may regulate the
location, size and use of buildings and the density of population in that
portion of an airport hazard area under the approach zones for a distance not
exceeding two miles from the airport boundary and may regulate height
restriction zoning for a distance not to exceed one and one-half miles beyond
the perimeter of the airport boundary.



(2004 Code, § 151.17)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



LAND USE SAFETY ZONING



§ 151.30  SAFETY ZONE BOUNDARIES.



   In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, as set forth above,
and also in order to restrict those uses which may be hazardous to the
operational safety of aircraft operating to and from the Municipal Airport
and, furthermore, to limit population and building density in the runway
approach areas, thereby creating sufficient open space so as to protect life
and property in case of an accident, there are hereby created and established
the following land use safety zones:



   (A)   Safety zone A. All land in that portion of the approach zones
of a runway, as defined in § 151.15 of this chapter, which extends outward
from the end of the primary surface a distance equal to two-thirds of the
planned length of the runway, which distance shall be 2,667 feet for Runway
15-33;



   (B)   Safety zone B. All land in that portion of the approach zones
of a runway, as defined in § 151.15 of this chapter, which extends outward
from safety zone A for a distance equal to one-third of the planned length of
the runway, which distance shall be 1,333 feet for Runway 15-33; and



   (C)   Safety zone C. All that land which is enclosed within the
perimeter of the horizontal zone, as defined in § 151.15 of this chapter,
and which is not included in zone A or zone B above.



(2004 Code, § 151.30)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.31  USE RESTRICTIONS.



   (A)   General. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in § 151.16 of this chapter, no use shall be made of any land in any
of the safety zones defined in § 151.30 of this chapter, which creates or
causes interference with the operations of radio or electronic facilities on
the airport or with radio or electronic communications between airport and
aircraft, makes it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights
and other lights, results in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport,
impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endangers the
landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.



   (B)   Zone A.



      (1)   Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in § 151.16 of this chapter, and to the general restrictions contained
in division (A) above, areas designated as zone A shall contain no buildings,
temporary structures, exposed transmission lines or other similar
above-ground land use structural hazards, and shall be restricted to those
uses which will not create, attract or bring together an assembly of persons
thereon.



      (2)   Permitted uses may include, but are not limited to, such
uses as agricultural (seasonal crops), horticulture, animal husbandry,
raising of livestock, wildlife habitat, light outdoor recreation
(non-spectator), cemeteries and auto parking.



   (C)   Zone B. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in § 151.16 of this chapter, and to the general restrictions contained
in division (A) above, areas designated as zone B shall be restricted in use
as follows.



      (1)   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall not be less
than three acres.



      (2)   Each use shall not create, attract or bring together a
site population that would exceed 15 times that of the site acreage.



      (3)   Each site shall have no more than one building plot upon
which any number of structures may be erected.



      (4)   A building plot shall be a single, uniform and
non-contrived area, whose shape is uncomplicated and whose area shall not
exceed the following minimum ratios with respect to the total site area:



 


Site Area

 
Ratio of Site Area to Building Plot Area
 
Building Plot Area (Square Feet)
 
Maximum Site Population (15 Persons per Acre)


At Least (Acres)
 
But Less Than (Acres)


3
 
4
 
12:1
 
10,900
 
45


4
 
6
 
10:1
 
17,400
 
60


6
 
10
 
8:1
 
32,700
 
90


10
 
20
 
6:1
 
72,600
 
150


20
 
And up
 
4:1
 
218,000
 
300



 



      (5)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in zone
B: churches, hospitals, schools, theaters, stadiums, hotels and motels,
trailer courts, campgrounds and other places of frequent public or
semi-public assembly.



   (D)   Zone C. Zone C is subject only to height restrictions set
forth in § 151.16 of this chapter, and to the general restrictions contained
in division (A) above.



(2004 Code, § 151.31)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.32  BOUNDARY LIMITATIONS.



   For the purpose of promoting health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity, general welfare and for conserving property values and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land, the city may regulate the
location, size and use of buildings and the density of population in that
portion of an airport hazard area under the approach zones for a distance not
to exceed two miles from the airport boundary and in other portions of an
airport hazard area not to exceed one mile from the airport boundary.



(2004 Code, § 151.32)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



NON-CONFORMING USES; VARIANCES



§ 151.45  EXISTING NON-CONFORMING USES; GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.



   The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed to
require the removal, lowering or other changes or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this
chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any non-conforming
use. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the construction,
alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration
of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter, and is
diligently prosecuted and completed within two years thereof.



(2004 Code, § 151.45)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.46  CONSTRUCTION; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.



   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in this division
(A), no material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure
shall be erected, altered or otherwise established in any zone hereby created
unless a certificate of compliance therefor shall have been issued by the
Airport Zoning Compliance Administrator. Each application for a permit shall
indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to conform to the regulations herein prescribed.
If that determination is in the affirmative, a certificate of compliance
shall be issued.



      (1)   However, a certificate of compliance for a tree or
structure of less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground shall not
be required in the horizontal and conical zones or in any approach and
transitional zones beyond a horizontal distance of 4,200 feet from each end
of the runway, except when that tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour or topographic features, would exceed the height or land use limit
prescribed for the respective zone.



      (2)   Nothing contained in this foregoing exception shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration
or growth of any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limitations
established by this chapter as set forth in § 151.16 of this chapter and the
land use limitations set forth in § 151.31 of this chapter.



   (B)   Existing uses. Before any existing use or structure may be
replaced, substantially altered or repaired, or rebuilt, within any zone
established herein, a permit must be secured authorizing that replacement,
change or repair. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming
use, structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it
was on the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereto, or than
it was when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.



(2004 Code, § 151.46)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.47  NON-CONFORMING USES; ABANDONMENT OR DESTRUCTION.



   (A)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that a
non-conforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more than 80% torn
down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be granted that
would allow that structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or
otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations. Whether application is made
for a permit under this section or not, the Zoning Administrator may order
the owner of the abandoned or partially deteriorated non-conforming
structure, at his or her own expense, to lower, remove, reconstruct or equip
the same in the manner necessary to conform to the provisions of this chapter.



   (B)   In the event the owner of the non-conforming structure shall
neglect or refuse to comply with this order for ten days after receipt of
written notice of the order, the Zoning Administrator may, by appropriate
legal action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed
non-conforming structure lowered, removed, reconstructed or equipped and
assess the cost and expense thereof against the land on which the structure
is or was located. Unless this assessment is paid within 90 days from the
service of notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear
interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date the cost and expense is
incurred until paid, and shall be collected in the same manner as are general
taxes.



   (C)   All permit applications for the replacement of a destroyed
non-conforming structure or tree shall be granted; provided that, the
replacement structure or tree is of no greater hazard to air navigation, nor
occupies a greater area than it did on the effective date of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 151.47)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.48  VARIANCES.



   (A)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any trees or use his or her property not
in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to
the Board of Adjustment for a variance from these regulations.



   (B)   If a person submits an application for a variance by certified
mail to the members of the Board and the Board fails to grant or deny the
variance within two months after the last member receives the application,
the variance shall be deemed to be granted by the Board. When the variance is
granted by reason of the failure of the Board to act on the variance, the
person receiving the variance shall notify the Board and the Commissioner of
Transportation by certified mail that the variance has been granted. The
applicant shall include a copy of the original application for the variance
with this notice to the Commissioner. The variance shall be effective 60 days
after this notice is received by the Commissioner, subject to any action
taken by the Commissioner pursuant to M.S. § 360.063(6), as it may be
amended from time to time.



   (C)   This type of variance shall be allowed where it is duly found
that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result in
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and relief granted would not be
contrary to the public interest, but do substantial justice and be in
accordance with the spirit of this chapter; provided, any variance so allowed
may be subject to any reasonable conditions  that the Board of Adjustment or
Commissioner may deem necessary to effectuate the purpose of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 151.48)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.49  HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING.



   (A)   Non-conforming uses. The owner of any non-conforming structure
or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation and
maintenance thereon of markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity
of the airport the presence of these airport hazards. These markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the city.



   (B)   Permits and variances. Any permit or variance granted by the
Zoning Administrator or Board of Adjustment, as the case may be, may, if that
action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be
reasonable in the circumstances, so condition the permit or variance as to
require the owner of the structure or tree in question at his or her own
expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon markers and lights as may
be necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard.



(2004 Code, § 151.49)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT



§ 151.60  AIRPORT ZONING COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR.



   It shall be the duty of a city official, as designated by the Council,
to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for
permits shall be made to the governmental entity having permitting
jurisdiction over the property, utilizing the procedures currently in effect
for the subject governmental entity. Permits requiring certificates of
compliance as set forth in § 151.46 of this chapter shall be referred to the
Airport Zoning Compliance Administrator and shall be promptly considered and
a certificate of compliance issued or denied by this official in accordance
with the regulations prescribed herein. Airport zoning variance applications
(relative to the regulations described herein) shall be submitted directly to
the Airport Zoning Compliance Administrator and transmitted by him or her for
action by the Board of Adjustment.



(2004 Code, § 151.60)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.61  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.



   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five
members appointed by the city, county and Hassan Valley and Lynn Townships
Joint Airport Zoning Board. Each member shall be at least a two-year resident
of the four governmental areas pertaining to and affected by this chapter and
each shall serve for a term of three years and until his or her successor is
duly appointed and qualified. Upon their appointments, the members shall be
removable by the Joint Airport Zoning Board for cause, upon written charges,
after a public hearing.



   (B)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the
following powers:



      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement
of this chapter;



      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of
this chapter upon which the Board of Adjustment under these regulations may
be required to pass; and



      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.



   (C)   Procedures.



      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and procedures in harmony with the provisions of this chapter.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chair
and at other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chair, or in
his or her absence the Acting Chair, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating that fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of
the Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record.



      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of
fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its
legal conclusions from those facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any
order, requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.



      (3)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Board of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor
of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to effect any variance from this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 151.61)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.62  APPEALS.



   (A)   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision
of the Zoning Administrator made in the administration of this chapter may
appeal to the Board of Adjustment. These appeals may also be made by the
Council, the county or the Airport Zoning Board, which is of the opinion that
a decision of the Zoning Administrator is an improper application of this
chapter as it concerns that governing body or board.



   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be commenced within 30 days of the
Zoning Administrator’s decision, by filing with the Airport Zoning
Compliance Administrator a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
The Airport Zoning Compliance Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the
Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. In addition, any person aggrieved or any
taxpayer affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator made in the
administration of this chapter who desires to appeal that decision shall
submit an application for a variance by certified mail to the members of the
Board of Adjustment in the manner set forth in M.S. § 360.067(2), as it may
be amended from time to time.



   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board
of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case, proceedings
shall not be stayed, except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to
the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.



   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest
and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.



   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make an order,
requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the Airport
Zoning Compliance Administrator.



(2004 Code, § 151.62)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.63  JUDICIAL REVIEW.



   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Board of Adjustment, or the Council, the county or the Airport Zoning Board,
which is of the opinion that a decision of the Board of Adjustment is
illegal, may present to the district court of the county a verified petition
setting forth that the decision or action is illegal, in whole or in part,
and specifying the grounds of the illegality. This petition shall be
presented to the court within 30 days after the decision is filed in the
office of the Board of Adjustment. The petitioner must exhaust the remedies
provided in this chapter before availing himself or herself of the right to
petition a court as provided by this section.



(2004 Code, § 151.63)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



§ 151.64  VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.



   It is unlawful for any person to construct, establish, substantially
change, alter or repair any existing structure or use, or permit the growth
of any tree, without having complied with the provisions of this chapter, or
for any person, having been granted a permit or variance under the provisions
of this chapter, to construct, establish, substantially change or
substantially alter or repair any existing growth or structure or permit the
growth of any tree, except as permitted by that permit or variance. Each day
a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The
Airport Zoning Compliance Administrator may enforce all provisions of this
chapter through proceedings for injunctive relief and other relief as may be
proper under the laws of M.S. § 360.073, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other applicable law.



(2004 Code, § 151.64)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 151.65  AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.



   The city, county and Hassan Valley and Lynn Townships Joint Airport
Zoning Board has the right and authority to amend this chapter. No part of
this chapter shall be amended or changed, except by action of the city,
county and Hassan Valley and Lynn Townships Joint Airport Zoning Board as
provided for in M.S. § 360.063(3) and (7), as they may be amended from time
to time, or by the Commissioner of Transportation as provided in M.S. §
360.063(6) and (8), as they may be amended from time to time, after public
hearings, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity
to be heard. A public hearing shall be held on the proposed regulations
before they are submitted for approval to the Commissioner, and a second
public hearing after that approval, but before final adoption, by the Joint
Airport Zoning Board.



(2004 Code, § 151.65)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1984)



APPENDIX A: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT ZONING; AFFECTED LAND



   (A)   This chapter affects all or a portion of the following
quarter-sections of land within Hassan Valley Township, T116N, R29W.



 


Section

 
Airspace Obstruction Zoning (§§ 151.15—151.17)
 
Land Use Safety Zoning (§§ 151.30—151.32)


NE Quarter
 
SE Quarter
 
SW Quarter
 
NW Quarter
 
NE Quarter
 
SE Quarter
 
SW Quarter
 
NW Quarter




5
 
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 


6
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
X
 


7
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X


8
 
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 


17
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
X


18
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X


19
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X


20
 
X
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 


30
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
 




 



   (B)   This chapter affects all or a portion of the following
quarter-sections of land within Lynn Township, T116N, R30W.



 


Section

 
Airspace Obstruction Zoning (§§ 151.15—151.17)
 
Land Use Safety Zoning (§§ 151.30—151.32)


NE Quarter
 
SE Quarter
 
SW Quarter
 
NW Quarter
 
NE Quarter
 
SE Quarter
 
SW Quarter
 
NW Quarter




1
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
X
 
X
 


2
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
X
 
 


3
 
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 


10
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 


11
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X


12
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X


13
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X


14
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
X


15
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 
 
 


23
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
 
 


24
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X
 
X


25
 
X
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
 




 



   (C)   This chapter affects all or a portion of the following
quarter-sections of land within Acoma Township, T117N, R30W.



 


Section

 
Airspace Obstruction Zoning (§§ 151.15—151.17)
 
Land Use Safety Zoning (§§ 151.30—151.32)


NE Quarter
 
SE Quarter
 
SW Quarter
 
NW Quarter
 
NE Quarter
 
SE Quarter
 
SW Quarter
 
NW Quarter


36
 
 
X
 
X
 
 
 
 
 



 



(2004 Code, Ch. 151, App.)



CHAPTER 152: SHORELAND MANAGEMENT



Section



General Provisions



   152.001   Statutory authorization



   152.002   Policy



   152.003   Jurisdiction



   152.004   Compliance required



   152.005   Interpretation



   152.006   Abrogation and greater restrictions



   152.007   Definitions



Shoreland Classification System; Land Use Districts



   152.020   Shoreland classification system



   152.021   Land use districts; designation and uses



Regulations and Standards



   152.035   Lot area and width



   152.036   Structure placement; setbacks



   152.037   Structural design criteria



   152.038   Structure height



   152.039   Vegetation alteration; grading and filling



   152.040   Roads, driveways and parking areas



   152.041   Storm water management



   152.042   Water supply; sewage treatment



   152.043   Standards for certain uses



   152.044   Conditional uses; criteria; conditions



Non-Conformities



   152.055   Existing non-conformities; regulations



   152.056   Non-conforming lots



   152.057   Non-conforming structures; expansion or addition



   152.058   Non-conforming sewage treatment systems



Subdivision Control



   152.070   Land suitability



   152.071   Consistency with other controls



   152.072   Information requirements



   152.073   Land dedication



   152.074   Platting procedure



   152.075   Controlled access and recreational lots



Planned Developments



   152.090   Permissible types



   152.091   Processing



   152.092   Application procedure



   152.093   Suitable area evaluation



   152.094   Base density evaluation; residential and commercial



   152.095   Maintenance and design criteria



   152.096   Conversions



Administration and Enforcement



   152.110   Enforcement authority; violations



   152.111   Permits required



   152.112   Certificate of zoning compliance



   152.113   Variances



   152.114   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 152.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.



   This shoreland chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and
policies contained in M.S. Ch. 103G, as it may be amended from time to time,
Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, as they may be amended from
time to time, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Ch.
462 (for municipalities), as it may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 152.001)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.002  POLICY.



   The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the city affects the public
health, safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of
public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in
the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for
the wise subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters. The
state legislature has delegated responsibility to local governments of the
state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of the shorelands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.



(2004 Code, § 152.002)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.003  JURISDICTION.



   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the shorelands of the
public water bodies as classified in §§ 152.020 and 152.021 of this
chapter. Pursuant to Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, as it may
be amended from time to time, no lake, pond or flowage less than ten acres in
size in municipalities or 25 acres in size in unincorporated areas need be
regulated in a local government’s shoreland regulations. A body of water
created by a private user where there was no previous shoreland may, at the
discretion of the governing body, be exempt from this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 152.003)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.004  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.



   The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and shape of lots;
the use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the installation and
maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems; the grading and
filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation; and the
subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.



(2004 Code, § 152.004)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 152.005  INTERPRETATION.



   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.



(2004 Code, § 152.005)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.006  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.



   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, municipal subdivision regulations or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.



(2004 Code, § 152.006)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.007  DEFINITIONS.



   (A)   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in
this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they
have in common usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.



   (B)   All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.



   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. These definitions shall amend the definitions elsewhere in this code
of ordinances, in reference to this chapter only. Both definitions shall
apply unless a conflict between the two definitions exists. Definitions in
this chapter shall supersede definitions elsewhere in the code only if a
clear conflict exists.



      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. Any building or improvement
subordinate to a principal use which, because of the nature of its use, can
reasonably be located at or greater than normal structure setbacks.



      BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment
having the following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less
than 18% over a distance of 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of
the BLUFF):



         (a)   Part or all of the feature is located in a
shoreland area;



         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the
ordinary high water level of the water body;



         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff
to a point 25 feet or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30%
or greater; and



         (d)   The slope must drain toward the water body.



      BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from
the top of a bluff.



      BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used principally for the
storage of boats or boating equipment. BOATHOUSES, whether considered as
water-oriented accessory structures, storage buildings or otherwise, are
prohibited. Expansion of or addition to existing BOATHOUSES are also
prohibited.



      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high
water level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.



      COMMERCIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS. Typically uses that provide
transient, short-term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels, and their operations,
are essentially service-oriented. For example, hotel or motel accommodations,
resorts, recreational vehicle and camping parks and other primarily
service-oriented activities are COMMERCIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.



      COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the
sale, lease, rental or trade of products, goods and services.



      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources.



      CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development, as defined by
ordinance, that would not be appropriate generally, but may be allowed with
appropriate restrictions as provided by official controls, upon a finding
that certain conditions as detailed in Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances
exist, the use or development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of
the community and the use is compatible with the existing neighborhood.



      DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached
railings, seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally
related to a principal use or site and at any point extending more than three
feet above ground.



      DUPLEX, TRIPLEX or QUAD. A dwelling structure on a single lot,
having two, three or four units, respectively, being attached by common
walls, and each unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living
and sanitation facilities.



      DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one
or more persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and
recreational vehicle sites.



      DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure or other
shelter designed as short- or long-term living quarters for one or more
persons, including rental or time-share accommodations such as motel, hotel
and resort rooms and cabins.



      EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal
of sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other non-metallic minerals and
peat not regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51, as they may be
amended from time to time.



      FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to
prepare for a new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest
stand.



      HARDSHIP. As the term is defined in M.S. Ch. 462 (for
municipalities), as it may be amended from time to time.



      HEIGHT OF BUILDING or STRUCTURE HEIGHT.



         (a)   The distance measured from the average existing
ground elevation adjoining the building at the front building line to the top
of the cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to a point
on the roof directly above the highest wall of a shed roof, to the uppermost
point on a round or other arch-type roof, or to the average distance of the
highest gable on a pitched or hip roof. References in this section to
BUILDING HEIGHT shall include and mean STRUCTURE HEIGHT, and if the structure
is other than a building, the height shall be measured from said average
existing ground elevation to the highest point of the structure.



         (b)   “Existing  ground elevation” means the lowest
of the following elevations:



            1.   The grade approved at the time of the
subdivision creating the lot; and



            2.   The grade at the time the building permit for
a principal structure on the lot is applied for.



         (c)   Retaining walls and/or artificial grades created
by fill may not be used to modify the measured building height to circumvent
the intent of the zoning ordinance. A survey may be required at the
applicant’s expense, to verify existing ground elevation and/or structure
height as directed by the Planning Director.



      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. The portion of the buildable parcel which has
a covering which does not permit water to percolate into the natural soil and
causes water to runoff the surface in greater quantities and at an increased
rate of flow than existed prior to development. IMPERVIOUS SURFACE shall
include, but not be limited to, buildings, all driveways and parking areas
(whether paved or not), sidewalks, patios, tennis and basketball courts,
covered decks, porches and other structures. Open, uncovered decks are not
considered IMPERVIOUS for the purposes of this chapter if they have a
pervious surface underneath and have at least one-eighth inch spacing between
the deck floor boards. Eaves and overhangs are not calculated as IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE. The use of patio blocks, paver bricks or gravel material, as well as
plastic landscape fabric, are considered IMPERVIOUS SURFACES as a majority of
water runs off the surface rather than being absorbed into natural soils
underneath. Some exceptions to these conditions may include paver blocks or
pavement systems engineered to be permeable with the underlying soils
suitable for infiltration. A survey may be required at the applicant’s
expense, to verify impervious surface coverage of the lot, as directed by the
Planning Director.



      INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.



      INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or
shrubs in a contiguous patch, strip, row or block.



      LOT. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds,
registered land survey, auditors plot or other accepted means, and separated
from other parcels or portions by that description for the purpose of sale,
lease or separation.



      LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at
the midpoint of the building line.



      MUST. The act referred to is mandatory and not permissive.



      NON-CONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land
already in existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official
controls or amendments thereto, that would not have been permitted to become
established under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the
official controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established,
recorded or authorized.



      ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and
wetlands, and shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon
the landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.



      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A type of development characterized by a
unified site design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a
parcel, whether for sale, rent or lease, and also usually involving
clustering of these units or sites to provide areas of common open space,
density increases and a mix of structure types and land uses. These
developments may be organized and operated as condominiums, time-share
condominiums, cooperatives, full fee ownership, commercial enterprises or any
combination of these, or cluster subdivisions of dwelling units, residential
condominiums, townhouses, apartment buildings, campgrounds, recreational
vehicle parks, resorts, hotels, motels and conversions of structures and land
uses to these uses.



      PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, as they
may be amended from time to time.



      RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A use where the nature of
residency is non-transient and the major or primary focus of the development
is not service-oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured
home parks, time-share condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives and full fee
ownership residences would be considered RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS. To
qualify as a RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT, a development must contain at
least five dwelling units or sites.



      RIPARIAN. Located on the bank of a natural watercourse.



      SEMI-PUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, non-profit
organization to provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some
persons outside the regular constituency of the organization.



      SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of
areas unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints
such as shallow soils over ground water or bedrock, highly erosive or
expansive soils, steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of
flora or fauna in need of special protection.



      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure,
sewage treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water level,
sewage treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line or
other facility.



      SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system
or other individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and
regulated in § 152.042 of this chapter.



      SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force
main, and all other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used
for conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of
ultimate disposal.



      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory and not permissive.



      SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water
level of a public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the
structure setback.



      SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from
public waters: 1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond
or flowage; and 300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a
flood plain designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is
greater. The limits of SHORELANDS may be reduced whenever the waters involved
are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for
lesser distances and when approved by the Commissioner.



      SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing
structure or other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the
National Register of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of
Historic Sites, or is determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under
the provisions of M.S. § 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A
historic site meets these criteria if it is presently listed on either
register or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for listing after
review by the state archaeologist or the director of the State Historical
Society. All unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered to be
SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.



      STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is
either not recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness
and the site’s soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available
county soil surveys or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and
construction techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Where specific information is not available,
STEEP SLOPES are lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over
horizontal distances of 50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.



      STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including decks, except
aerial or underground utility lines such as sewer, electric, telephone,
telegraph, gas lines, towers, poles and other supporting facilities.



      SUBDIVISION. Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent
or lease, including planned developments.



      SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for
commercial purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an
integral part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts and
restaurants with transient docking facilities are examples of such use.



      TOE OF THE BLUFF. The point on a bluff where there is, as
visually observed, a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from gentler to
steeper slope above. If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOE OF THE
BLUFF shall be determined to be the lower end of a 50-foot segment, measured
on the ground, with an average slope exceeding 18%.



      TOP OF THE BLUFF. The point on a bluff where there is, as
visually observed, a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to
gentler slope above. If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOP OF THE
BLUFF shall be determined to be the upper end of a 50-foot segment, measured
on the ground, with an average slope exceeding 18%.



      VARIANCE. As the term is defined or described in M.S. Ch. 462
(for municipalities), as it may be amended from time to time.



      WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small,
above-ground building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks
and retaining walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a
surface water feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters
than the normal structure setback. Examples of this type of structures and
facilities include gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and
detached decks. Boathouses are not permitted, nor considered as
WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.



      WETLAND. A surface water feature classified as a WETLAND in the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39 (1971 edition).



(2004 Code, § 152.007)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 96-169, passed
7-9-1996; Ord. 10-0557, passed 9-28-2010)



SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM; LAND USE DISTRICTS



§ 152.020  SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.



   (A)   Basis. The public waters of the city have been classified
below consistent with the criteria found in Minn. Rules part 6120.3300, as it
may be amended from time to time, and the Protected Waters Inventory Map for
the county.



   (B)   Shoreland. The shoreland area for the water bodies listed in
divisions (C) and (D) below shall be as defined in § 152.007 of this chapter
and as shown on the official zoning map.



   (C)   General development lakes. Campbell Lake and Otter Lake:
Protected Waters Inventory identification no. 43-85-P.



   (D)   Urban river. South Fork Crow River; legal description: Crow
River Dam to southeast corporate limits.



(2004 Code, § 152.020)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.021  LAND USE DISTRICTS; DESIGNATION AND USES.



   (A)   The land use zoning districts provided below, and the
allowable land uses therein for the given classifications of water bodies,
shall be properly delineated on the official zoning map for the shorelands of
the city.



   (B)   These land use districts are in conformance with the criteria
specified in Minn. Rules part 6120.3200, subp. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time.



      (1)   Land use districts for Campbell and Otter Lakes (within
1,000 feet of ordinary high water point).



 


Campbell and Otter Lakes; Land Use Districts



District
 
Use
 

Permissibility





General Use District (C-1 through C-4, BP, I-1, I/C, I-2, PD)
 
Commercial
 

P



Commercial planned development**
 

C



Extractive use (municipality exempt)
 

NP



Forest management
 

P



Industrial
 

C



Mining of metallic minerals and peat
 

NP



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Public, semi-public
 

P



High Density Residential District (R-3, R-4, R-5, PD)
 
Duplex, triplex, quad residential
 

P



Forest management
 

P



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Residential planned developments
 

C



Semi-public
 

C



Single residential
 

C



Surface water-oriented commercial*
 

C



Residential District (R-1, R-2, PD)
 
Duplex, triplex, quad residential
 

C



Extractive use
 

NP



Forest management
 

P



Mining of metallic minerals and peat
 

NP



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Semi-public
 

C



Single residential
 

P



Special Protection District
 
Agricultural; cropland and pasture
 

P



Agricultural feedlots
 

NP



Extractive use
 

C



Forest management
 

P



Mining of metallic minerals and peat
 

NP



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Sensitive resource management
 

P



Single residential
 

C



Key:

C=Conditional use permit required

NP = Not permitted

P = Permitted


NOTES TO TABLE:

* As accessory to a residential planned development.

** Limited expansion of a commercial planned development involving up to six
additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use provided
the provisions of §§ 152.090 through 152.096 of this chapter are satisfied.




 



      (2)   Land use districts for Crow River (within 300-foot
setback or landward extent of 100-year flood plain).



 


Crow River; Land Use Districts



District
 
Use
 

Permissibility





General Use District (C-1 through C-4, BP, I-1, I/C, I-2, PD)
 
Commercial
 

P



Commercial planned development**
 

C



Extractive use (municipality exempt)
 

NP



Forest management
 

P



Industrial
 

C



Mining of metallic minerals and peat
 

NP



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Public, semi-public
 

P



High Density Residential (R-3, R-4, R-5, PD)
 
Duplex, triplex, quad residential
 

P



Forest management
 

P



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Residential planned developments
 

C



Semi-public
 

C



Single residential
 

C



Surface water-oriented commercial*
 

C



Residential District (R-1, R-2, PD)
 
Duplex, triplex, quad residential
 

C



Extractive use
 

NP



Forest management
 

P



Mining of metallic minerals and peat
 

NP



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Semi-public
 

C



Single residential
 

P



Special Protection District
 
Agricultural; cropland and pasture
 

P



Agricultural feedlots
 

NP



Extractive use
 

C



Forest management
 

P



Mining of metallic minerals and peat
 

NP



Parks and historic sites
 

C



Sensitive resource management
 

P



Single residential
 

C



Key:

C = Conditional use permit required

NP = Not permitted

P = Permitted


NOTES TO TABLE:

* As accessory to a residential planned development.

** Limited expansion of a commercial planned development involving up to six
additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use provided
the provisions of §§ 152.090 through 152.096 of this chapter are satisfied.




 



(2004 Code, § 152.021)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)




REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS




§ 152.035  LOT AREA AND WIDTH.



   (A)   Lot area and width standards. The lot area (in square feet)
and lot width standards (in feet) for single, duplex, triplex and quad
residential lots created after the date of enactment of this chapter for the
lake and river or stream classifications are the following.



      (1)   Unsewered lakeshore areas (within 1,000 feet of ordinary
high water mark).



 

Residential Lot Type; Lakeshore Area; Unsewered
 
Riparian Lots
 
Non-Riparian Lots


Area (in Square Feet)
 
Width (in Feet)
 
Area (in Square Feet)
 
Width (in Feet)


Single
 
20,000
 
100
 
40,000
 
150


Duplex
 
40,000
 
180
 
80,000
 
265


Triplex
 
60,000
 
260
 
120,000
 
375


Quad
 
80,000
 
340
 
160,000
 
490



 



      (2)   Sewered lakeshore areas (within 1,000 feet of ordinary
high water mark).



 

Residential Lot Type; Lakeshore Area; Sewered
 
Riparian Lots
 
Non-Riparian Lots


Area (in Square Feet)
 
Width (in Feet)
 
Area (in Square Feet)
 
Width (in Feet)


Single
 
15,000
 
75
 
10,000
 
75


Duplex
 
26,000
 
135
 
17,500
 
135


Triplex
 
38,000
 
195
 
25,000
 
190


Quad
 
49,000
 
255
 
32,500
 
245



 



      (3)   River lot width standards. There is no minimum lot size
requirements for rivers, except for those imposed in Ch. 153 of this code,
regarding subdivisions. The lot width standards for single, duplex, triplex
and quad residential developments for the South Fork Crow River are as
follows. These dimensions must be at least as wide as those required in Ch.
153 for the zoning district.



 


Residential Lot Type; River Lots

 

Lot Width; Unsewered (in Feet)

 

Lot Width; Sewered (in Feet)




Single

 

100

 

75




Duplex

 

150

 

115




Triplex

 

200

 

150




Quad

 

250

 

190




   (B)   Additional special provisions.



      (1)   Residential subdivisions with dwelling unit densities
exceeding those in the tables in divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) above can only
be allowed if designed and approved as residential planned developments under
§§ 152.090 through 152.096 of this chapter. Only land above the ordinary
high water level of public waters can be used to meet lot area standards, and
lot width standards must be met at both the ordinary high water level and at
the building line. The sewer lot area dimensions in division (A)(2) above can
only be used if publicly owned sewer system service is available to the
property.



      (2)   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or
as recreation areas for use by owners of non-riparian lots within
subdivisions are permissible and must meet or exceed the following standards:



         (a)   They must meet the width and size requirements for
residential lots, and be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access
lots;



         (b)   If docking, mooring or over-water storage of more
than six watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the
width of the lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by the
percent of the requirements for riparian residential lots for each watercraft
beyond six, consistent with the following table.



 

Controlled Access Lot Frontage Requirements


Ratio of Lake Size to Shore Length (Acres per Mile)
 
Required Increase in Frontage (Percent)


Less than 100
 

25



100 - 200
 

20



201 - 300
 

15



301 - 400
 

10



Greater than 400
 

5




 



         (c)   They must be jointly owned by all purchasers of
lots in the subdivision or by all purchasers of non-riparian lots in the
subdivision who are provided riparian access rights on the access lot; and



         (d)   Covenants or other equally effective legal
instruments must be developed that specify which lot owners have authority to
use the access lot and what activities are allowed. The activities may
include watercraft launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring or docking.
They must also include other outdoor recreational activities that do not
significantly conflict with general public use of the public water or the
enjoyment of normal property rights by adjacent property owners. Examples of
the non-significant conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing or
picnicking. The covenants must limit the total number of vehicles allowed to
be parked and the total number of watercraft allowed to be continuously
moored, docked or stored over water, and must require centralization of all
common facilities and activities in the most suitable locations on the lot to
minimize topographic and vegetation alterations. They must also require all
parking areas, storage buildings and other facilities to be screened by
vegetation or topography as much as practical from view from the public
water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.



(2004 Code, § 152.035)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 152.036  STRUCTURE PLACEMENT; SETBACKS.



   (A)   Setbacks. When more than one setback applies to a site,
structures and facilities must be located to meet all setbacks. Where
structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of a proposed building
site, structure setbacks may be altered without a variance to conform to the
adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level; provided, the proposed
building site is not located in a shore impact zone or in a bluff impact
zone. Structures shall be located as follows.



      (1)   Structure and on-site sewage system setbacks (in feet)
from ordinary high water level.



 

Classes of Public Waters
 

Setbacks from Ordinary High Water Level* (in Feet)




Structures, Unsewered

 

Structures, Sewered

 

Sewage Treatment System



Lakes
 

75

 

50

 

50



Rivers
 

100

 

50

 

75



NOTES TO TABLE:

* One water-oriented accessory structure designed in accordance with §
152.037 of this chapter may be set back a minimum distance of ten feet from
the ordinary high water level.



 



      (2)   Additional structure setbacks. The following additional
structure setbacks apply, regardless of the classification of the water body.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Setback (in Feet)



Right-of-way line of federal, state or county highway
 

50



Right-of-way line of city road, public street or other roads or streets not
classified
 

20



Top of bluff
 

30



Unplatted cemetery
 

50




 



   (B)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities,
except stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.



   (C)   Uses without water-oriented needs. Uses without water-oriented
needs must be located on lots or parcels without public waters frontage or,
if located on lots or parcels with public waters frontage, must either be set
back double the normal ordinary high water level setback or be substantially
screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography, assuming
summer, leaf-on conditions.



(2004 Code, § 152.036)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 152.037  STRUCTURAL DESIGN CRITERIA.



   (A)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance
with any flood plain regulations applicable to the site, as set forth in §§
154.090 through 154.096 of this code of ordinances.



   (B)   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one
water-oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback
in § 152.036 of this chapter if this water-oriented accessory structure
complies with the following provisions.



      (1)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in
height, exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250
square feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any
point.



      (2)   The setback of the structure or facility from the
ordinary high water level must be at least ten feet.



      (3)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions.



      (4)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but
must not be enclosed or used as a storage area.



      (5)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used
for human habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment
facilities.



      (6)   Water-oriented accessory structures used principally for
watercraft storage are prohibited. Storage of related boating and
water-oriented sporting equipment in the shoreline impact zone may occupy a
structure with maximum door opening of three feet, zero inches.



   (C)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access
up and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must
meet the following design requirements.



      (1)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width
on residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties,
public open space recreational properties and planned developments.



      (2)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots
must not exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet
may be used for commercial properties, public open space recreational
properties and planned developments.



      (3)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.



      (4)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed
above the ground on posts or pilings or placed into the ground; provided,
they are designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.



      (5)   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the
most visually inconspicuous portions of lots as viewed from the surface of
the public water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.



      (6)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for
physically disabled persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions
(C)(1) through (C)(5) above are complied with in addition to the requirements
of Minn. Rules Ch. 1340, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (D)   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in
a public repository.



   (E)   Steep slopes. The Director of Engineering and/or Zoning
Administrator must evaluate possible soil erosion impacts and development
visibility from public waters before issuing a permit for construction of
sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways, structures or other improvements
on steep slopes. When determined necessary, conditions must be attached to
issued permits to prevent erosion and to preserve existing vegetation
screening of structures, vehicles and other facilities as viewed from the
surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.



(2004 Code, § 152.037)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 96-169, passed
7-9-1996)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 152.038  STRUCTURE HEIGHT.



   All structures in residential districts, except churches and
non-residential agricultural structures, must not exceed 25 feet in height,
based on the definition in § 152.007 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 152.038)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 152.039  VEGETATION ALTERATION; GRADING AND FILLING.



   (A)   Shoreland alterations. Alterations of vegetation and
topography will be regulated to prevent erosion into public waters, fix
nutrients, preserve shoreland aesthetics, preserve historic values, prevent
bank slumping and protect fish and wildlife habitat.



   (B)   Vegetation alterations.



      (1)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of
structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and
parking areas regulated by § 152.040 of this chapter are exempt from the
vegetation alteration standards that follow.



      (2)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for
agricultural and forest management uses as regulated in § 152.043(B) and (C)
of this chapter, respectively, is allowed subject to the following standards.



         (a)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and
bluff impact zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation
clearing for forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is
allowable as a conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan
is developed and approved by the soil and water conservation district in
which the property is located.



         (b)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep
slopes, limited clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and
trimming of trees is allowed to provide a view to the water from the
principal dwelling site and to accommodate the placement of stairways and
landings, picnic areas, access paths, livestock watering areas, beach and
watercraft access areas and permitted water-oriented accessory structures or
facilities; provided that:



            1.   The screening of structures, vehicles or
other facilities as viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions, is not substantially reduced;



            2.   Along rivers, existing shading of water
surfaces is preserved; and



            3.   The above provisions are not applicable to
the removal of trees, limbs or branches that are dead, are diseased or pose
safety hazards.



   (C)   Topographic alterations; grading and filling.



      (1)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways under
validly issued construction permits for these facilities do not require the
issuance of a separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and
filling standards in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of
permits for construction of structures, sewage treatment systems and
driveways.



      (2)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by §
152.040 of this chapter.



      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, a
grading and filling permit will be required for:



         (a)   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of
material on steep slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and



         (b)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of
material outside of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.



      (4)   The following considerations and conditions must be
adhered to during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling
permits, conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:



         (a)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or
8 wetland must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed
activity would affect the following functional qualities of the wetland. This
evaluation must also include a determination of whether the wetland
alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews or approvals by other
local, state or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the State
Department of Natural Resources or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The
applicant will be so advised:



            1.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;



            2.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or
reduce flood damage;



            3.   Fish and wildlife habitat;



            4.   Recreational use;



            5.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and



            6.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities
such as historic significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and
animals or others.



         (b)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a
manner that ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for
the shortest time possible;



         (c)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where
necessary, for temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover
must be established as soon as possible;



         (d)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap
sediments before they reach any surface water feature must be used;



         (e)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable
erosion control standards consistent with the field office technical guides
of the local soil and water conservation districts and the U.S. Soil
Conservation Service;



         (f)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a
manner that creates an unstable slope;



         (g)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep
slopes must be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope
stability and must not create finished slopes of 30% or greater;



         (h)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in
bluff impact zones;



         (i)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water
level of public waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under
M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time;



         (j)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if
they are accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely
affect adjacent or nearby properties; and



         (k)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including
associated grading of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is
permitted if the finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one
foot vertical, the landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the
ordinary high water level and the height of the riprap above the ordinary
high water level does not exceed three feet.



      (5)   Excavations where the intended purpose is connection to
a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and harbors, must be
controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for excavations may be
given only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed connection to
public waters.



(2004 Code, § 152.039)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.040  ROADS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.



   (A)   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to
take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided by a
qualified individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the field office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation
district, or other applicable technical materials.



   (B)   Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet structure
setbacks and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when
other reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no
alternatives exist, they may be placed within these areas, and must be
designed to minimize adverse impacts.



   (C)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads and
access-related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided
the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this section are
met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of §
152.039(C) of this chapter must be met.



(2004 Code, § 152.040)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.041  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.



   The following general and specific standards shall apply.



   (A)   General standards.



      (1)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands
and vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain
storm water runoff before discharge to public waters.



      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner
that will minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities and
erosion potential, and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must
be stabilized and protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods
used to retain sediment on the site.



      (3)   When development density, topographic features and soil
and vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle storm water
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and
human-made materials and facilities.



   (B)   Specific standards.



      (1)   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed 25%
of the lot area subject to the provisions of § 152.113(D) and (E).



      (2)   When constructed facilities are used for storm water
management, documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that
they are designed and installed consistent with the field office technical
guide of the local soil and water conservation districts.



      (3)   New constructed storm water outfalls to public waters
must provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of
surface debris before discharge.



(2004 Code, § 152.041)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 10-0557, passed
9-28-2010)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 152.042  WATER SUPPLY; SEWAGE TREATMENT.



   (A)   Water supply. Any public or private supply of water for
domestic purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the
State Department of Health and the State Pollution Control Agency.



   (B)   Sewage treatment. Any premises used for human occupancy must
be provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment, as follows.



      (1)   Publicly owned sewer systems must be used where
available.



      (2)   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed
the State Pollution Control Agency’s standards for individual sewage
treatment systems contained in the document titled, Individual Sewage
Treatment Systems Standards, Ch. 7080, a copy of which is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this code of ordinances.



      (3)   On-site sewage treatment systems must be set back from
the ordinary high water level in accordance with the setbacks contained in §
152.036 of this chapter.



      (4)   All proposed sites for individual sewage treatment
systems shall be evaluated in accordance with the criteria in divisions
(B)(4)(a) through (B)(4)(d) below. If the determination of a site’s
suitability cannot be made with publicly available, existing information, it
shall then be the responsibility of the applicant to provide sufficient soil
borings and percolation tests from on-site field investigations. Evaluation
criteria are:



         (a)   Depth to the highest known or calculated ground
water table or bedrock;



         (b)   Soil conditions, properties and permeability;



         (c)   Slope; and



         (d)   The existence of lowlands, local surface
depressions and rock outcrops.



      (5)   Non-conforming sewage treatment systems shall be
regulated and upgraded in accordance with § 152.058 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 152.042)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.043  STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN USES.



   (A)   Standards for commercial, industrial, public and semi-public
uses.



      (1)   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial,
public or semi-public uses with similar needs to have access to and use of
public waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public
waters. Those uses with water-oriented needs must meet the following
standards:



         (a)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits,
setbacks and other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be
designed to incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas
and structures;



         (b)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring
for patrons must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid
obstructions of navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the
need; and



         (c)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft
may use signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public,
subject to the following general standards:



            1.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities
for signs may be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information
or safety messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority
or under a permit issued by the County Sheriff;



            2.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within
the shore impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum
necessary to convey needed information. They must only convey the location
and name of the establishment and the general types of goods or services
available. The signs must not contain other detailed information such as
product brands and prices, must not be located higher than ten feet above the
ground, and must not exceed 32 square feet in size. If illuminated by
artificial lights, the lights must be shielded or directed to prevent
illumination out across public waters; and



            3.   Other outside lighting may be located within
the shore impact zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to
illuminate potential safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to
prevent direct illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude
use of navigational lights.



      (2)   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on
lots or parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or
parcels with public waters frontage, must either be set back double the
normal ordinary high water level setback or be substantially screened from
view from the water by vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions.



   (B)   Agriculture use standards.



      (1)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, sod farming and wild crop harvesting are
permitted uses if steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are
maintained in permanent vegetation or operated under an approved conservation
plan (Resource Management Systems) consistent with the field office technical
guides of the local soil and water conservation districts or the U.S. Soil
Conservation Service, as provided by a qualified individual or agency.



      (2)   The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted
agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the
ordinary high water level.



   (C)   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and
associated reforestation must be conducted consistent with the provisions of
the State Non-point Source Pollution Assessment - Forestry and the provisions
of Water Quality in Forest Management “Best Management Practices in the
State”.



   (D)   Extractive use standards. Extractive uses are prohibited,
except for municipal uses within I-2 zones and for municipal pond development
areas.



   (E)   Mining of metallic minerals and peat. Mining of metallic
minerals and peat is prohibited.



((2004 Code, § 152.043)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99



§ 152.044  CONDITIONAL USES; CRITERIA; CONDITIONS.



   (A)   Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas shall be
subject to the review and approval procedures, and criteria and conditions
for review of conditional uses established community-wide.



   (B)   The following additional evaluation criteria and conditions
apply within shoreland areas.



      (1)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the water
body and the topographic, vegetation and soils conditions on the site must be
made to ensure:



         (a)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible
pollution of public waters, both during and after construction;



         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities
as viewed from public waters is limited;



         (c)   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site
sewage treatment; and



         (d)   The types, uses and numbers of watercraft that the
project will generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public
waters to safely accommodate these watercraft.



      (2)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The
Planning Commission and City Council, upon consideration of the criteria
listed above and the purposes of this chapter, shall attach conditions to the
issuance of the conditional use permits as they deem necessary to fulfill the
purposes of this chapter. These conditions may include, but are not limited
to, the following:



         (a)   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water
level;



         (b)   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be
removed or the requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and



         (c)   Special provisions for the location, design and
use of structures; sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking
areas and vehicle parking areas.



(2004 Code, § 152.044)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)




NON-CONFORMITIES




§ 152.055  EXISTING NON-CONFORMITIES; REGULATIONS.



   All legally established non-conformities as of the date of this chapter
may continue, but they will be managed according to applicable state statutes
and other regulations of this community for the subjects of alterations and
additions, repair after damage, discontinuance of use and intensification of
use; except that, the following standards will also apply in shoreland areas.



(2004 Code, § 152.055)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.056  NON-CONFORMING LOTS.



   (A)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the
date of enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the
requirements of § 152.035 of this chapter may be allowed as building sites
without variances from lot size requirements; provided, the use is permitted
in the zoning district, the lot has been in separate ownership from abutting
lands at all times since it became substandard, the lot was created compliant
with official controls in effect at the time and sewage treatment and setback
requirements of this chapter are met.



   (B)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before
any use, sewage treatment system or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the Planning Commission or City Council shall
consider sewage treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the
lot and shall deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.



   (C)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of § 152.035 of
this chapter, the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for
the purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with one or
more contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting
the requirements of § 152.035 of this chapter as much as possible.



(2004 Code, § 152.056)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.057  NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES; EXPANSION OR ADDITION.



   (A)   All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an
existing non-conforming structure must meet the setback, height and other
requirements of §§ 152.035 through 152.044 of this chapter. Any deviation
from these requirements must be authorized by a variance pursuant to §
152.113 of this chapter.



   (B)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a
structure not meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level
if all of the following criteria and standards are met:



      (1)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks
were established;



      (2)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure
reveals no reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing
ordinary high water level setback of the structure;



      (3)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water
level does not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the
ordinary high water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever
is more restrictive; and



      (4)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not
roofed or screened.



(2004 Code, § 152.057)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.058  NON-CONFORMING SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS.



   (A)   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of §
152.042 of this chapter must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit
or variance of any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the
property. For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system shall
not be considered non-conforming if the only deficiency is the sewage
treatment system’s improper setback from the ordinary high water level.



   (B)   The governing body of the city has by formal resolution
notified the Commissioner of its program to identify non-conforming sewage
treatment systems. The city will require upgrading or replacement of any
non-conforming system identified by this program within a reasonable period
of time which will not exceed two years. Sewage systems installed according
to all applicable local shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. Ch.
103G, as it may be amended from time to time, in effect at the time of
installation, may be considered as conforming unless they are determined to
be failing, except that systems using cesspools, leaching pits, seepage pits
or other deep disposal methods, or systems with less soil treatment area
separation above ground water than required by the State Pollution Control
Agency’s Ch. 7080 for design of on-site sewage treatment systems, shall be
considered non-conforming.



(2004 Code, § 152.058)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)




SUBDIVISION CONTROL




§ 152.070  LAND SUITABILITY.



   Each lot created through subdivision, including planned developments
authorized under §§ 152.090 through 152.096 of this chapter, must be
suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal alteration.
Suitability analysis by the local unit of government shall consider
susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, steep
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities,
near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation,
important fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites
or any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health,
safety or welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the
community.



(2004 Code, § 152.070)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.071  CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER CONTROLS.



   Subdivisions must conform to all official controls of this community. A
subdivision will not be approved where a later variance from one or more
standards in official controls would be needed to use the lots for their
intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly owned sewer and water
systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless domestic water supply is
available and a sewage treatment system consistent with §§ 152.036 through
152.038 and 152.042 can be provided for every lot. Each lot shall meet the
minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of § 152.035, including at
least a minimum contiguous lawn area that is free of limiting factors
sufficient for the construction of two standard soil treatment systems. Lots
that would require use of holding tanks must not be approved.



(2004 Code, § 152.071)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.072  INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   Sufficient information must be submitted by the applicant for
the community to make a determination of land suitability.



   (B)   The information shall include at least the following:



      (1)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less from
U.S. Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting site
characteristics;



      (2)   The surface water features required in M.S. § 505.021,
as it may be amended from time to time, to be shown on plats, obtained from
U.S. Geological Survey quadrangle topographic maps or more accurate sources;



      (3)   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for
building and on-site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the
most current existing sources or from field investigations such as soil
borings, percolation tests or other methods;



      (4)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply;
extent of anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near-shore
aquatic conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments and aquatic
vegetation; and proposed methods for controlling storm water runoff and
erosion, both during and after construction activities;



      (5)   Location of 100-year flood plain areas and floodway
districts from existing adopted maps or data; and



      (6)   A line or contour representing the ordinary high water
level, the toe and the top of bluffs and the minimum building setback
distances from the top of the bluff and the lake or stream.



(2004 Code, § 152.072)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.073  LAND DEDICATION.



   When a land or easement dedication is a condition of subdivision
approval, the approval must provide easements over natural drainage or
ponding areas for management of storm water and significant wetlands.



(2004 Code, § 152.073)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.074  PLATTING PROCEDURE.



   (A)   All subdivisions that create three or more lots or parcels
that are five acres or less in size shall be processed as a plat in
accordance with M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time.



   (B)   No permit for construction of buildings or sewage treatment
systems shall be issued for lots created after these official controls were
enacted unless the lot was approved as part of a formal subdivision.



(2004 Code, § 152.074)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.075  CONTROLLED ACCESS AND RECREATIONAL LOTS.



   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or for
recreational use areas for use by non-riparian lots within a subdivision must
meet or exceed the sizing criteria in § 152.035(B) of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 152.075)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)




PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS




§ 152.090  PERMISSIBLE TYPES.



   Planned developments (PDs) are allowed for new projects on undeveloped
land, redevelopment of previously-built sites or conversions of existing
buildings and land. The land use districts in which they are an allowable use
are identified in the land use district descriptions in § 152.021 of this
chapter and the official zoning map.



(2004 Code, § 152.085)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.091  PROCESSING.



   (A)   Planned developments must be processed as a conditional use.



   (B)   Approval cannot occur until the environmental review process
(EAW/EIS) is complete.



(2004 Code, § 152.086)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.092  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.



   The applicant for a PD must submit the following documents prior to
final action being taken on the application request:



   (A)   A site plan and plat for the project showing locations of
property boundaries, surface water features, existing and proposed structures
and other facilities, land alterations, sewage treatment infrastructure and
water supply systems (where public systems will not be provided) and
topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less. When a PD is a combined
commercial and residential development, the site plan and plat must indicate
and distinguish which buildings and portions of the project are residential,
commercial or a combination of the two;



   (B)   A property owners’ association agreement (for residential
PDs) with mandatory membership, and all in accordance with the requirements
of § 152.095 of this chapter;



   (C)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements or other
instruments that:



      (1)   Properly address future vegetative and topographic
alterations, construction of additional buildings, beaching of watercraft and
construction of commercial buildings in residential PDs; and



      (2)   Ensure the long-term preservation and maintenance of
open space in accordance with the criteria and analysis specified in §
152.095 of this chapter.



   (D)   When necessary, a master plan or drawing describing the
project and the floor plan for all commercial structures to be occupied; and



   (E)   Those additional documents as requested by the city that are
necessary to explain how the PD will be designed and will function.



(2004 Code, § 152.087)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.093  SUITABLE AREA EVALUATION.



   (A)   Proposed new or expansions to existing planned developments
must be evaluated using the following procedures and standards to determine
the suitable area for the dwelling unit or dwelling site density evaluation
in § 152.094 of this chapter.



   (B)   The project parcel must be divided into tiers by locating one
or more lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary
high water level at the following intervals, proceeding landward.



 


Shoreland Tier Dimensions



Type of Area
 

Unsewered

 

Sewered



Lakeshore areas, first tier
 

200 feet

 

200 feet



Lakeshore areas, second and additional tiers
 

267 feet

 

200 feet



River areas
 

300 feet

 

300 feet




 



   (C)   The suitable area within each tier is next calculated by
excluding from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs or land below the ordinary
high water level of public waters. This suitable area and the proposed
project are then subjected to either the residential or commercial planned
development density evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of
dwelling units or sites.



(2004 Code, § 152.088)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.094  BASE DENSITY EVALUATION; RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL.



   (A)   Residential and commercial PD density evaluation. The
procedures for determining the base density of a PUD and density increase
multipliers are as follows. Allowable densities may be transferred from any
tier to any other tier further from the water body, but must not be
transferred to any other tier closer.



   (B)   Residential PD base density evaluation. The suitable area
within each tier is divided by the single residential lot size standard for
lakes or, for rivers, the single residential lot width standard times the
tier depth. Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for the
residential planned developments are then compared with the tier, density and
suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in § 152.095 of this
chapter.



   (C)   Commercial PD base density evaluations.



      (1)   Determine the average inside living area size of
dwelling units or sites within each tier, including both existing and
proposed units and sites. Computation of inside living area sizes need not
include decks, patios, stoops, steps, garages or porches and basements,
unless they are habitable space.



      (2)   Select the appropriate floor area ratio from the
following table.



 


Average Unit Floor Area (in Square Feet)*

 

Floor Area Ratio






1,000

 

0.108




1,100

 

0.116




1,200

 

0.125




1,300

 

0.133




1,400

 

0.142




1,500

 

0.150



NOTES TO TABLE:

* For average unit floor areas less than shown, use the floor area ratios
listed for 200 square feet. For areas greater than shown, use the ratios
listed for 1,500 square feet. For recreational camping areas, use the ratios
listed at 400 square feet. Manufactured home sites in recreational camping
areas shall use a ratio equal to the size of the manufactured home or, if
unknown, the ratio listed for 1,000 square feet.




 



      (3)   Multiply the suitable area within each tier by the floor
area ratio to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for
dwelling units or sites.



      (4)   Divide the total floor area by tier computed in division
(C)(3) above by the average inside living area size determined in division
(C)(1) above. This yields a base number of dwelling units and sites for each
tier.



      (5)   Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or
sites for the commercial planned development are then compared with the tier,
density and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in § 152.095
of this chapter.



   (D)   Density increase multipliers.



      (1)   Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base
densities previously determined are allowable if the dimensional standards in
§§ 152.035 through 152.044 of this chapter are met or exceeded and the
design criteria in § 152.095 are satisfied. The allowable density increases
in division (D)(2) below will only be allowed if structure setbacks from the
ordinary high water level are increased to at least 50% greater than the
minimum setback, or the impact on the water body is reduced an equivalent
amount through vegetative management, topography or additional means
acceptable to the local unit of government and the setback is at least 25%
greater than the minimum setback.



      (2)   Allowable dwelling unit or dwelling site density
increases for residential or commercial planned developments are as follows.



 

Density Evaluation Tiers
 
Maximum Density Increase Within Tier (Percent)



First

 

50




Second

 

100




Third

 

200




Fourth

 

200




Fifth

 

200




 



(2004 Code, § 152.089)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.095  MAINTENANCE AND DESIGN CRITERIA.



   (A)   Maintenance and administration requirements. Before final
approval of a planned development, adequate provisions must be developed for
preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of open spaces and for the
continued existence and functioning of the development.



      (1)   Open space preservation. Deed restrictions, covenants,
permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance or other equally
effective and permanent means must be provided to ensure long-term
preservation and maintenance of open space. The instruments must include all
of the following protections:



         (a)   Commercial uses prohibited (for residential PDs);



         (b)   Vegetation and topographic alterations other than
routine maintenance prohibited;



         (c)   Construction of additional buildings or storage of
vehicles and other materials prohibited; and



         (d)   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft prohibited.



      (2)   Development organization and functioning. Unless an
equally effective alternative community framework is established, when
applicable, all residential planned developments must use an owners’
association with the following features.



         (a)   Membership must be mandatory for each dwelling
unit or site purchaser and any successive purchasers.



         (b)   Each member must pay a pro rata share of the
association’s expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or
sites.



         (c)   Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate
changing conditions.



         (d)   The association must be responsible for insurance,
taxes and maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.



   (B)   Open space requirements. Planned developments must contain
open space meeting all of the following criteria.



      (1)   At least 50% of the total project area must be preserved
as open space.



      (2)   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way or land
covered by road surfaces, parking areas or structures, except water-oriented
accessory structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be
included in the computation of minimum open space.



      (3)   Open space must include areas with physical
characteristics unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas
containing significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries.



      (4)   Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities
for use by owners of dwelling units or sites, by guests staying in commercial
dwelling units or sites and by the general public.



      (5)   Open space must not include commercial facilities or
uses, but may contain water-oriented accessory structures or facilities.



      (6)   The appearance of open space areas, including
topography, vegetation and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of
restrictive deed covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and
acceptance or other equally effective and permanent means.



      (7)   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure
setbacks, must be included as open space. For residential PDs, at least 50%
of the shore impact zone area of existing developments or at least 70% of the
shore impact zone area of new developments must be preserved in its natural
or existing state. For commercial PDs, at least 50% of the shore impact zone
must be preserved in its natural state.



   (C)   Erosion control and storm water management. Erosion control
and storm water management plans must be developed and the PD must:



      (1)   Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize
the likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after
construction. This must be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of
time of bare ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment
facilities, vegetated buffer strips or other appropriate techniques must be
used to minimize erosion impacts on surface water features. Erosion control
plans approved by a soil and water conservation district may be required if
project size and site physical characteristics warrant; and



      (2)   Be designed and constructed to effectively manage
reasonably expected quantities and qualities of storm water runoff.
Impervious surface coverage within any tier must not exceed 25% of the tier
area; except that, for commercial PDs, 35% impervious surface coverage may be
allowed in the first tier of general development lakes with an approved storm
water management plan and consistency with § 152.039 of this chapter.



   (D)   Centralization and design of facilities. Centralization and
design of facilities and structures must be done according to the following
standards.



      (1)   Planned developments must be connected to publicly owned
water supply and sewer systems.



      (2)   Dwelling units or sites must be clustered into one or
more groups and located on suitable areas of the development. They must be
designed and located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards
for the relevant shoreland classification: setback from the ordinary high
water level, elevation above the surface water features and maximum height.
Setbacks from the ordinary high water level must be increased in accordance
with § 152.094(D) of this chapter for developments with density increases.



      (3)   Shore recreation facilities, including, but not limited
to, swimming areas, docks and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps,
must be centralized and located in areas suitable for them. Evaluation of
suitability must include consideration of land slope, water depth,
vegetation, soils, depth to ground water and bedrock or other relevant
factors. The number of spaces provided for continuous beaching, mooring or
docking of watercraft must not exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or
site in the first tier (notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing
commercially used harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock
for loading and unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of
dwelling units or sites located in other tiers.



      (4)   Structures, parking areas and other facilities must be
treated to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent
shorelands by vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color or other
means acceptable to the local unit of government, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions. Vegetative and topographic screening must be preserved, if
existing, or may be required to be provided.



      (5)   Accessory structures and facilities, except
water-oriented accessory structures, must meet the required principal
structure setback and must be centralized.



      (6)   Water-oriented accessory structures and facilities may
be allowed if they meet or exceed design standards contained in §§ 152.036
through 152.038 of this chapter and are centralized.



(2004 Code, § 152.090)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.096  CONVERSIONS.



   Local governments may allow existing resorts or other land uses and
facilities to be converted to residential planned developments if all of the
following standards are met.



   (A)   Proposed conversions must be initially evaluated using the
same procedures for residential planned developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development
and these standards must be identified.



   (B)   Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment,
structure color, impervious coverage, open space and shore recreation
facilities must be corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the
conditional use permit.



   (C)   Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies must be evaluated and
reasonable improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements
must include, where applicable, the following:



      (1)   Removal of extraneous buildings, docks or other
facilities that no longer need to be located in shore or bluff impact zones;



      (2)   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve
vegetative cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed
from the water; and



      (3)   If existing dwelling units are located in shore or bluff
impact zones, conditions are attached to approvals of conversions that
preclude exterior expansions in any dimension or substantial alterations. The
conditions must also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where
feasible, to other locations meeting all setback and elevation requirements
when they are rebuilt or replaced.



   (D)   (1)   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities
that exceed standards in § 152.094 of this chapter may be allowed to
continue but must not be allowed to be increased, either at the time of
conversion or in the future.



      (2)   Efforts must be made during the conversion to limit
impacts of high densities by requiring seasonal use, improving vegetative
screening, centralizing shore recreation facilities, installing new sewage
treatment systems or other means.



(2004 Code, § 152.091)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)




ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT




§ 152.110  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; VIOLATIONS.



   (A)   The Director of Engineering and/or Zoning Administrator is
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.



   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or conditional
uses) shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by
law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a
permit is required for a regulated activity pursuant to § 152.111 of this
chapter.



(2004 Code, § 152.105)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.111  PERMITS REQUIRED.



   (A)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or
building additions (including related activities such as construction of
decks and signs), the installation or alteration of sewage treatment systems,
and those grading and filling activities not exempted by § 152.039 of this
chapter. Application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator
on the forms provided. The application shall include the necessary
information so that the Zoning Administrator can determine the site’s
suitability for the intended use and so that a compliant sewage treatment
system will be provided.



   (B)   A permit authorizing an addition to an existing structure
shall stipulate that an identified non-conforming sewage treatment system, as
defined by § 152.042 of this chapter, shall be reconstructed or replaced in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Construction installation is
restricted to only state certified installers, as defined by the State
Pollution Control Agency.



(2004 Code, § 152.106)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.112  CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.



   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a certificate of
occupancy or zoning compliance for each activity requiring a permit as
specified in § 152.111 of this chapter.



   (B)   This certificate will specify that the use of land conforms to
the requirements of this chapter.



   (C)   Any use, arrangement or construction at variance with that
authorized by permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be
punishable as provided in § 152.110 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 152.107)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



§ 152.113  VARIANCES.



   (A)   Variances may only be granted in accordance with M.S. Ch. 462,
as it may be amended from time to time, as applicable. A variance may not
circumvent the general purposes and intent of this chapter. No variance may
be granted that would allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning district
in which the subject property is located. Conditions may be imposed in the
granting of a variance to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent
properties and the public interest. In considering a variance request, the
Planning Commission and City Council must also consider whether the property
owner has reasonable use of the land without the variance, whether the
property is used seasonally or year-round, whether the variance is being
requested solely on the basis of economic considerations, and the
characteristics of development on adjacent properties.



   (B)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall hear and decide
requests for variances in accordance with the rules that it has adopted for
the conduct of business. When a variance is approved after the Department of
Natural Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance required in § 152.114(B) of this
chapter shall also include the Planning Commission and City Council’s
summary of the public record and testimony and the findings of facts and
conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.



   (C)   For existing developments, the application for variance must
clearly demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present
for the intended use of the property. The variance, if issued, must require
reconstruction of a non-conforming sewage treatment system by an MPCA
certified installer.



   (D)   A variance from the impervious surface requirements contained
in § 152.041(B)(1) of this chapter is not required for the alteration or
addition of structures and appurtenances to lots in the shoreland district
that exist as legal non-conformities, if the impervious surface coverage of a
lot does not exceed 50% and the following conditions are met:



      (1)   The lot has been developed prior to 9-28-2010;



      (2)   A survey completed by a professional land surveyor is
required to determine the exact amount of impervious surface coverage on the
lot; and



      (3)   Any changes to structures or fixtures on the lot or
appurtenances thereto do not increase the overall impervious surface coverage
of the lot as calculated by a professional land surveyor and approved by the
Planning Director at the time the building or other appropriate permit is
applied for.



   (E)   A variance from the impervious surface requirements contained
in § 152.041(B)(1) of this chapter is not required for the alteration or
addition of structures and appurtenances to lots in the shoreland district
that exist as legal non-conformities, if the impervious surface coverage of a
lot does not exceed 50% and the following conditions are met:



      (1)   The lot has been developed prior to 9-28-2010;



      (2)   A survey completed by a professional land surveyor is
required to determine the exact amount of impervious surface coverage on the
lot; and



      (3)   The volume of water equal to one inch multiplied by the
area of impervious surface over the amount of impervious surface that existed
previously, as a legal non-conformity, must be treated on-site. For example,
if a lot is 28% impervious surface coverage prior to construction and the
applicant wants to increase to 30% impervious surface coverage, 2% of the
impervious surface must be mitigated. Preference must be given to volume
reduction techniques that include infiltration basins, rain gardens, enhanced
infiltration swales, filter strips, disconnected impervious areas and other
conservation designs. All management technologies shall be consistent with
the latest state storm water manual. The city requires the use of trained
personnel in erosion and sediment control and storm water management or a
state licensed professional engineer to design and inspect the installation
and use of best management practices to ensure proper design and operation of
the on site storm water treatment facility. The city will have final say as
to whether the design of the treatment facility is approved or not.



(2004 Code, § 152.108)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 10-0557, passed
9-28-2010)



§ 152.114  NOTIFICATIONS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES.



   (A)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider
variances, amendments or conditional uses under local shoreland management
controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designated
representative and postmarked at least ten days before the hearings. Notices
of hearings to consider proposed subdivisions or plats must include copies of
the subdivision or plat.



   (B)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions or plats, and
final decisions granting variances or conditional uses under local shoreland
management controls, must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s
designated representative and postmarked within ten days of final action.



(2004 Code, § 152.109)  (Ord. 92-56, passed 4-14-1992)



CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS



Section




General Provisions




   153.001   Purpose



   153.002   Statutory authority



   153.003   Jurisdiction



   153.004   Application



   153.005   Conveyance of land parcel; lot split



   153.006   Right of building permit refusal



   153.007   Public street grants; Council approval



   153.008   Definitions




Sketch Plan




   153.020   Submission to Planning Commission



   153.021   Required data




Preliminary Plat




   153.035   Advisory meeting



   153.036   Preliminary plat required



   153.037   Required data



   153.038   Procedures; submission, review, hearing, decision



   153.039   Plat review charge




Final Plat




   153.050   Required data



   153.051   Procedures; submission, review, decision, record




Minimum Required Improvements




   153.065   Guarantee; plans and specifications



   153.066   Subdivision agreements



   153.067   Conformance to Comprehensive Plan



   153.068   Official Map; street platting



   153.069   Drainage and flood hazard areas



   153.070   Community assets; natural and historical features



   153.071   Monuments



   153.072   Public sites, open spaces and bicycle and pedestrian paths



   153.073   Layout of streets, blocks and bicycle and pedestrian paths



   153.074   Rights-of-way; minimum widths



   153.075   Minimum pavement widths; surfacing



   153.076   Street grades and curves; sign distances



   153.077   Intersections



   153.078   Lots



   153.079   Water and sewer lines; drainage



   153.080   Sidewalks; driveways



   153.081   Screen planting



   153.082   Street names; signs



   153.083   Easements



   153.084   Public utilities



   153.085   Tree planting in new subdivisions




Administration and Enforcement




   153.100   Modification and exceptions



   153.101   Variances



   153.102   Plat recording; land transfer



   153.103   Schedule of fees adopted




GENERAL PROVISIONS




§ 153.001  PURPOSE.



   Land subdivision is the first step in the process of community
development. Once land has been divided into streets, blocks, lots and open
spaces, a pattern has been established which determines how well community
needs for residence, business and industry will be met. It also determines,
to a great extent, how well the community will be able to handle its traffic
circulation problems, how well it will be able to meet the demand for home
sites and how efficiently and economically it will be able to provide the
many services that are required. These subdivision regulations are designed
to provide for harmonious development of a subdivided area; for a coordinated
layout; for the proper arrangement of streets; for adequate and convenient
spaces for traffic, utilities, recreation, light, air and access for
firefighting equipment; and for adequate provision for water, drainage, sewer
and other sanitary facilities. These regulations shall not apply to land used
only for agricultural purposes.



(2004 Code, § 153.01)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.002  STATUTORY AUTHORITY.



   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, 1965 edition, as
it may be amended from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 153.02)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.003  JURISDICTION.



   The regulations herein governing plats and the subdivision of land
shall apply within the corporate limits of the city as determined by plat at
the time of application and the unincorporated area within two miles of its
limits; provided that, where a municipality lies less than four miles from
the limits of the city, these regulations shall apply only to a line
equidistant from the city and that municipality; and, provided further that,
the governing body or bodies of unincorporated towns adjacent to the city
have not adopted ordinances for the regulation of subdivision of land or
platting. Copies of resolutions approving subdivision plats of land outside
the city, but not subject to township subdivision regulations, shall be filed
with the Clerk of the town in which the land is situated.



(2004 Code, § 153.03)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.004  APPLICATION.



   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or each part thereof
lying within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared, presented
for approval and recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained
herein shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land into
three or more lots, tracts or other divisions of land for the purpose of sale
or building development, whether immediate or future, including the
resubdivision or replatting of land or lots. Division of land in tracts
larger than five acres in area and 300 feet in width shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 153.04)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.005  CONVEYANCE OF LAND PARCEL; LOT SPLIT.



   No conveyance of a parcel of land in which the parcel of land conveyed
is described by metes and bounds, or by reference of a plat made after
adoption of these platting regulations without recommendation by the Planning
Commission, approval by Council resolution, shall be made or recorded if the
parcel described in the conveyance is less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width unless that parcel is a separate parcel of record on the
effective date of this chapter or unless an agreement to convey that parcel
was entered into prior to that time and the instrument showing agreement to
convey is recorded in the office of the County Recorder within one year
hereafter. A registered land survey identifying the lot split and the two
resulting lots shall be submitted with this request. All existing structures
and the setbacks from property lines, easements, adjacent streets and
rights-of-way shall be identified on the survey.



(2004 Code, § 153.05)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995; Ord. 96-170, passed
8-13-1996)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 153.006  RIGHT OF BUILDING PERMIT REFUSAL.



   The City Engineer and Building Inspector shall refuse building permits
and utility services to any parcel of property conveyed by metes and bounds
description in violation of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 153.06)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.007  PUBLIC STREET GRANTS; COUNCIL APPROVAL.



   No grant of a public street to the city by deed shall be filed without
the approval of the Council by a resolution to that effect.



(2004 Code, § 153.07)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.008  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ALLEYS. Minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular service
access to the backs or to the sides of properties which otherwise abut on
streets.



   ARTERIAL STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. Streets designed or utilized primarily
for vehicular speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic.



   BLOCK. The distance as measured along a street between intersecting
streets from centerline to centerline; and where the context requires, it
also means the enclosed area within the perimeter of the streets or property
lines enclosing it.



   CHAPTER 154 or ZONING CHAPTER.Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances,
as amended, including the official zoning map which divides the jurisdiction
of the Planning Commission into districts with regulations, requirements and
procedures for the establishment of land use controls.



   COLLECTOR STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. Streets designed or utilized to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from minor streets to arterial streets.



   LOCAL STREETS. Streets which are used or will be used primarily for
access to abutting properties and which carry limited volumes of traffic.



   LOT. A piece or parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a building
or use, or as a unit for the transfer of ownership.



   MAP. A drawing showing one of more parcels of land.



   PLAT. A map showing a plan for the subdivision of land which is
submitted for approval and is intended in final form for recording.



   SERVICE DRIVES. Minor streets which are parallel and adjacent to higher
classified thoroughfares which serve to reduce the number of access points to
those thoroughfares and thereby increase traffic safety.



   SETBACK. The building setback line of distance as measured from the
nearest street, road or water shoreline.



   STREET. A way set aside for vehicular traffic, regardless of size or
designation, but excluding private driveways serving only one parcel of land.



   STORM SEWER. A constructed conduit for carrying surface waters to a
drainage course.



   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, individual firm, association, syndicate,
co-partnership, corporation, trust or other legal entity commencing
proceedings under this chapter to effect a subdivision of land.



   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been
divided into three or more lots or plots for the purpose of immediate or
future transfer of ownership for the purpose of sale or of building
development, including the resubdivision or replatting of land or lots.
Division of land in tracts larger than five acres in area and 300 feet in
width and which does not involve any new streets or easements of access shall
be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.



   SURVEYOR. A duly registered land surveyor employed by the subdivider
for the preparation of subdivision surveys or plats as required by this
chapter and state statutes, and in accordance with  provisions of this code
of ordinances and state law.



   TRANSPORTATION PLAN. The part of the Comprehensive Plan, now or
hereafter adopted, which includes a major street and highway plan and sets
forth the location, alignment, dimension, identification and classification
of existing and proposed streets, highways and other thoroughfares.



   UTILITIES. Includes water mains, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer
lines, power lines, gas lines, telephone lines and cable television lines.



(2004 Code, § 153.08)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)




SKETCH PLAN




§ 153.020  SUBMISSION TO PLANNING COMMISSION.



   (A)   Subdividers may prepare a subdivision sketch plan for review
by the Planning Commission. This sketch plan will be considered as having
been submitted for informal discussion between the subdivider and the
Planning Commission. No fee shall be required of the subdivider for the
submission of a sketch plan.



   (B)   Submission of a subdivision sketch plan shall not constitute
formal filing of a plan with the city. On the basis of the subdivision sketch
plan, the Planning Commission will informally advise the subdivider of the
extent to which the plan conforms to the Comprehensive Plan, design standards
of this chapter and to other ordinances of the city, county and state will
discuss possible modification necessary to secure approval of the plan.



(2004 Code, § 153.20)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.021  REQUIRED DATA.



   The subdivider should provide the Planning Commission with the
following information:



   (A)   Site location;



   (B)   A rough sketch of the site showing its general shape and
adjacent roadway, waterways and any other significant features of the
immediate area;



   (C)   Type of development proposed;



   (D)   A preliminary road layout and lotting arrangement indicating
minimum proposed lot size; and



   (E)   The sketch plan shall include all contiguous property under
the same ownership which is proposed to be developed at some time in the
foreseeable future, not just the property to be immediately platted.



(2004 Code, § 153.21)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)




PRELIMINARY PLAT




§ 153.035  ADVISORY MEETING.



   Before preparing a preliminary plat and submitting it to the Planning
Commission for approval, and after submitting the sketch plan, the subdivider
shall meet and consult informally with the city planning staff for the
purpose of reviewing the locations of proposed major streets, bicycle and
pedestrian paths, parks, playgrounds, school sites and other planned projects
which may affect the property being considered for subdivision. At the same
meeting, the subdivider shall review with the city planning staff the minimum
standards of subdivision design set forth in §§ 153.065 through 153.084.
This informal review should prevent unnecessary and costly revisions in the
layout and development of the subdivision. Formal application or filing of a
plat with the city is not required for this informal advisory meeting.



(2004 Code, § 153.35)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.036  PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIRED.



   Before submission of a final plat, the subdivider shall prepare and
submit to the City Administrator a preliminary plat of the land he or she
proposes to develop as described in § 153.038(B) of this chapter. The
preliminary plat shall be submitted only after the advisory meeting with the
city planning staff and prior to the making of any street improvements or the
installation of any utilities. The preliminary plat shall cover all of the
owner’s contiguous land, but the final plat may cover only a portion of the
preliminary plat; provided, it is in conformity with the approved preliminary
plat.



(2004 Code, § 153.36)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.037  REQUIRED DATA.



   (A)   The preliminary plat shall meet the standards of design as set
forth in §§ 153.065 through 153.084 of this chapter.



   (B)   The preliminary plat shall show the following information:



      (1)   Scale of 100 feet to one inch or larger;



      (2)   Name of subdivision, name and address of the owners, the
engineer or surveyor and the owners of the adjacent property;



      (3)   Location of subdivision by section, town, range or other
legal description together with small scale sketch showing location within
the section;



      (4)   Date of preparation and of latest revision (if
applicable), approximate north point and graphic scale;



      (5)   Acreage of land to be subdivided;



      (6)   Zoning classification of lands to be subdivided and all
adjacent lands within 300 feet of the preliminary plat;



      (7)   Boundary lines of area to be subdivided, their bearings
and distances, and total acreage calculated to the nearest one-tenth acre;



      (8)   Existing and proposed easements and their locations,
widths and distances;



      (9)   Street, lot line and easement locations within 100 feet
of the proposed plat;



      (10)   Shoreland management area boundaries for Campbell Lake,
Otter Lake and South Fork Crow River, if applicable;



      (11)   Lot lines, lot numbers and approximate lot dimensions;



      (12)   Sites, bicycle and pedestrian paths and their acreages,
if any, to be reserved or dedicated for parks, recreation areas, open spaces,
schools or other public uses. Sites, if any, for semi-public, commercial or
multi-family uses;



      (13)   Minimum building setback lines;



      (14)   Location of railroads, streams, wetlands, lakes,
marshes, wooded areas, drainage tiles, retention ponds, natural and proposed
drainage courses, permanent buildings and other structures or significant
physical features;



      (15)   If the preliminary plat is a rearrangement or a replat
of any recorded plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat, its
original name and all revised or vacated roadways shall be shown by dotted or
dashed lines;



      (16)   Certification by a registered land surveyor certifying
to accuracy and preparation of plat;



      (17)   A plan for utility service shall be presented with the
preliminary plat. The utility plan shall include utilities on and adjacent to
the tract showing proposed connections to existing utility systems. Data to
be provided includes types of utility; location of sanitary sewer, storm
sewer and water main lines, manholes, catch basins, hydrants and the like;
approximate manhole and catch basin rim and invert elevations; size of pipe;
direction of flow; and required utility easements;



      (18)   A plan for grading, retention (per M.S. § 103B.3369,
as it may be amended from time to time, known as the Reding Bill),
landscaping and wetland preservation, and delineation per the 1991 Wetland
Conservation Act, being 103G.221 et seq., as it may be amended from time to
time, shall be presented with the preliminary plat. The grading plan shall
include:



         (a)   Existing contours at two-foot intervals in dashed
lines and proposed contours at two-foot intervals in heavier solid lines;



         (b)   Existing and proposed methods of retention
disposing of surface water drainage within and beyond the limits of the plat;



         (c)   Provisions to protect areas affected by inadequate
surface drainage or subjected to periodic flooding, provide an outlet or
other protection to make the area safe for occupancy and provide for adequate
street and lot drainage (i.e. and emergency overflow or pending);



         (d)   Provisions to protect existing natural features,
when possible. Wooded and wetland areas to be disturbed shall be delineated.
All trees eight inches in diameter or greater shall be shown;



         (e)   Proposed street grades, including elevations at
all high and low points, grades of streets within 100 feet of the plat and
street elevations at plat boundary;



         (f)   Proposed garage slab and lowest floor elevations
for each lot. Lots proposed for walkouts and lookouts shall be so noted; and



         (g)   Floodway, flood fringe boundaries and 100-year
flood elevations.



      (19)   Additional information to be supplied includes:



         (a)   Statement of proposed use of lots (i.e., whether
residential, commercial, industrial or a combination thereof). If
residential, the type and number of dwelling units shall also be stated.
There shall be furnished sufficient details for all types of usage in order
to reveal the effect of the subdivision development on traffic, fire
protection and density of development;



         (b)   If zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed
zoning plan for the area;



         (c)   Copies of proposed deed restrictions and
covenants, if any;



         (d)   Other reasonable information, such as percolation
or other soil tests, if so requested by the Planning Commission in order to
make a proper review of the site;



         (e)   A location map clearly showing the plat location
in the city; and



         (f)   Soil boring and footing load design.



(2004 Code, § 153.37)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.038  PROCEDURES; SUBMISSION, REVIEW, HEARING, DECISION.



   (A)   Prior to submittal of the preliminary plat, in the case of any
proposed plat which includes lands abutting upon any existing or established
trunk highway or proposed highway which has been designated by a centerline
order found in the office of the County Recorder, the plat shall first be
presented to the Commissioner of the Department of Transportation for his or
her written comments and recommendations. The Commissioner of the Department
of Transportation shall submit written comments to the city in accordance
with state law. In requesting the comments of the Commissioner of the
Department of Transportation, the subdivider shall include a written
statement describing the outlet for and means of disposal of surface water in
the proposed platted area. Also, prior to the submission of the preliminary
plat which includes or borders on an existing or proposed county road, the
plat shall also be presented to the County Engineer requesting written
comments and recommendations.



   (B)   Four copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary material
specified shall be submitted to the City Administrator for filing with a
written application for conditional approval.



   (C)   The City Administrator shall, upon receipt of a preliminary
plat, retain one copy, refer one copy to the Zoning Administrator and refer
two copies to the Engineer for review as to completeness of information. If
found to be incomplete, the application will be returned to the developer. If
found to  be complete, the plat will be referred to other city department
heads, the Utilities Commission, the telephone company and cable television
for review as necessary.



   (D)   Upon review by city department heads, the City Forester, the
Utilities Commission, the telephone company and cable television, the copy of
the plat together with all comments and suggested revisions shall be referred
to the Planning Commission for a public hearing. The preliminary plat shall
receive the approval of the Engineer as to engineering considerations prior
to consideration by the Planning Commission. A certificate of approval by the
Engineer shall be attached to the preliminary plat. A letter of
recommendation from the City Forester in regard to the preservation and
future planting of trees shall also be attached.



   (E)   The city shall notify the subdivider by mail of the time and
place of the public hearing not less than five days before the date fixed for
the hearing. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of the land
immediately adjoining the area to be subdivided as shown on the preliminary
plat. Time and place of the public hearing shall be published at least once
in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing. The
publication shall include a drawing which shows the location of the proposed
subdivision.



   (F)   (1)   Within 60 days after the hearing on the preliminary
plat, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval, disapproval or
approval subject to modification of the plat to the Council. Failure of the
Planning Commission to act on the preliminary plat within 60 days shall be
deemed a recommendation of approval of the plat.



      (2)   If a plat is recommended for disapproval, reasons for
that disapproval must be stated in writing. If approval subject to
modifications is recommended, the nature of the required modifications shall
be indicated in writing. The Planning Commission shall then forward the
preliminary plat together with its recommendations to the Council for final
action. The preliminary plat shall be approved or disapproved by the Council
within 120 days following delivery of an application for a preliminary plat
completed in compliance with this chapter unless an extension of the review
period has been agreed to by the applicant.



      (3)   The final action of the Council shall be noted on two
copies of the preliminary plat with any notations made at the time of
approval, disapproval of the specific changes required. One copy shall be
returned to the subdivider and the other placed on file in the office of the
City Administrator.



   (G)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute
acceptance of the final plat. The approval of the preliminary plat shall
lapse unless a final plat based thereon is submitted within 60 months from
the date of that approval. An extension of time may be applied for by the
subdivider and granted by the Council.



(2004 Code, § 153.38)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.039  PLAT REVIEW CHARGE.



   An application and filing fee will be charged at the time of
application for all preliminary and final plats plat to offset administrative
costs in processing the application submitted. The fee shall be determined by
ordinance and set annually by the City Council on the city’s fee schedule,
as it may be amended by City Council from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 153.39)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995; Ord. 08-0514, passed
11-12-2008)




FINAL PLAT




§ 153.050  REQUIRED DATA.



   (A)   The final plat shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals
100 feet in the following numbers: one Mylar reproducible stamped “city
copy” signed; one Mylar reproducible stamped “copy” signed. The final
plat shall be prepared on sheets 20 inches wide and 30 inches in length with
a two-inch left border line and a one-half inch top, bottom and right border
line. There shall also be included one 11-inch by 17-inch Mylar copy of the
final plat. An electronic file must also be provided to the city, in a format
determined by the City Engineer.



   (B)   The final plat shall include the following information and any
other information required by state law:



      (1)   Data required by state law to fully describe the land to
be platted including accurate dimensions, angles, bearings to describe
boundaries, streets, easements, areas reserved for public purpose and other
important features;



      (2)   Name and right-of-way width of each street, highway,
easement or other right-of-way as required by state law;



      (3)   Lot numbers, lot lines and dimensions;



      (4)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots,
are dedicated or reserved;



      (5)   Location of rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, ponds and
swamps as required by state law;



      (6)   Location and description of monuments as required by
state law;



      (7)   Names and location of adjoining subdivision, streets and
unplatted properties;



      (8)   Certification on plat of title showing that the
applicant is the owner and a statement by that owner dedicating streets,
rights-of-way and any other sites for public use;



      (9)   Certification on plat by surveyor as to the accuracy of
survey and plat;



      (10)   Certification on plat by the City Administrator that
the plat has been approved for recording in the office of the County Recorder;



      (11)   (a)   Certification that the subdivider has complied
with one of the following alternatives shall be submitted with the final plat:



            1.   All the improvements have been installed in
accordance with the requirements of these regulations and the stipulations of
the subdivision agreement;



            2.   A performance be provided in favor of the
city in the amount equal to all improvements required for the project. The
form and content of the bond must be approved by the City Attorney prior to
the improvements occurring on the property; or



            3.   A letter of credit, provided in favor of the
city, in an amount equal to all the improvements required for the project.
The form and content of the letter of credit must be approved by the City
Administrator prior to the improvements occurring on the property.



         (b)   No reductions in a performance bond or letter of
credit until the City Attorney and City Engineer have approved the reduction
in writing. Furthermore, reductions will only be considered one time per
quarter.



      (12)   Cross-sections, profiles and grades of streets, bicycle
and pedestrian paths, curbs, gutters and sidewalks showing locations of
in-street utilities, and drawn to standard scales and elevations, shall be
submitted with the final plat, when improvements are installed under division
(B)(11)(a) above;



      (13)   Protective covenants, if any, shall be submitted with
the final plat; and



      (14)   Letters of approval of highway access points and
service roads from the Commissioner of the Department of Transportation and
the County Engineer, as applicable, shall be submitted with the final plat.



(2004 Code, § 153.50)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995; Ord. 02-327, passed
1-14-2003; Ord. 08-0514, passed 11-12-2008)



§ 153.051  PROCEDURES; SUBMISSION, REVIEW, DECISION, RECORD.



   (A)   Twelve paper print copies of the final plat together with any
street profiles, other plans and certifications as indicated in § 153.050 of
this chapter that may be required shall be submitted to the City
Administrator by the subdivider.



   (B)   One paper print copy of the final plat shall be transmitted to
the Engineer who will check the plat as to computations, monuments and the
like, and that all the required improvements have been completed to the
satisfaction of the city or, in the case that a security bond has been
posted, that it is sufficient to cover the cost of the required improvements.
If found satisfactory, the Engineer will refer the paper print copy of the
final plat to the Planning Commission with the Engineer’s approval
certified  thereon within 30 days of receipt thereof. The Planning
Commission shall then forward the plat together with its recommendations to
the Council for final action.



   (C)   (1)   After the submittal of the final plat, the Planning
Commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of the plat. Failure of
the Planning Commission to act upon the final plat shall be deemed a
recommendation of approval of the plat. If plat disapproval is recommended,
the grounds for disapproval shall be stated in the records of the Planning
Commission. A plat shall not be recommended for approval unless it:



         (a)   Conforms to the preliminary plat;



         (b)   Conforms to the design standards set forth in this
chapter;



         (c)   Conforms to the adopted Comprehensive Plan; and



         (d)   Is in accordance with all requirements and laws of
the state.



      (2)   The Planning Commission shall then forward the plat
together with its recommendations to the Council for final action. The
Council shall either approve or deny the final plat within 60 days after the
subdivider requests final approval, unless a longer period is agreed to by
the subdivider. The Council shall certify final approval if the applicant has
complied with all conditions and requirements of applicable regulations and
all conditions and requirements upon which the preliminary approval is
expressly conditioned either through performance or the execution of
appropriate agreements assuring performance.



   (D)   It is the intent of this chapter that a paper copy of the
final plat go to the Planning Commission and City Engineer for review and to
the Council for action. No final plat shall be approved by the Council until
satisfactory evidence is filed with the city that the final plat is in a form
acceptable for recording in the office of the County Recorder.



   (E)   When the final plat has been approved by the Council, the
developer shall then cause the required Mylar, cloth, paper and sepia prints,
all of which contain the certifications, signatures (except those of the city
officials and the County Recorder) and acknowledgments required to file and
record same in the office of the County Recorder, to be produced and
submitted to the city.



   (F)   Upon approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall record
it with the County Recorder within 270 days in the manner specified by state
law. Otherwise, the approval shall become void unless a request for extension
has been made in writing and approved by the Council.



(2004 Code, § 153.51)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995; Ord. 99-251, passed
5-11-1999)



MINIMUM REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS



§ 153.065  GUARANTEE; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.



   The developer shall provide the following improvements before approval
of a plat, or shall provide the necessary funds in the form of letter of
credit or shall provide a performance bond in an amount necessary to ensure
compliance with the installation of improvements as herein required and as
identified in § 153.050 of this chapter; provided, however, that, the
Council may also accept petitions for these improvements to be installed on a
special assessment basis. All of the improvements required in this subchapter
shall be constructed only after the plans and specifications thereof have
been approved by the city. No areas platted after the effective date of this
chapter outside the city or properties subdivided by metes and bounds
descriptions after the effective date of this chapter will be accepted for
annexation unless they shall substantially conform or can be made to
substantially conform to the minimum standards herein.



(2004 Code, § 153.65)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995; Ord. 02-327, passed
1-14-2003)



§ 153.066  SUBDIVISION AGREEMENTS.



   (A)   An agreement shall be executed by the subdivider and the city
before any plat is executed by the city.



   (B)   The agreement shall be recorded by the subdivider in the
office of the County Recorder within 30 days of final approval.



(2004 Code, § 153.66)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.067  CONFORMANCE TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.



   The plat shall conform to the official map and other parts of the
adopted Comprehensive Plan of the city.



(2004 Code, § 153.67)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.068  OFFICIAL MAP; STREET PLATTING.



   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of an arterial or
collector street or highway, so designated on the official map, that part
shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and at the width indicated
on the plan.



(2004 Code, § 153.68)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.069  DRAINAGE AND FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.



   The right is reserved to disapprove any subdivision which is subject to
poor drainage. However, if the subdivider agrees to make improvements as will
make the area safe for residential occupancy, the subdivision may be
approved, subject however to the approval of the Engineer and in accordance
with  state statutes. No land shall be subdivided which is held unsuitable
by the Council for reasons of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or
sewage treatment facilities. All lots within the flood plain districts shall
contain a building site at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage disposal facilities
that comply with the provisions of this chapter and have road access both to
the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet
below the regulatory flood protection elevation.



(2004 Code, § 153.69)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.070  COMMUNITY ASSETS; NATURAL AND HISTORICAL FEATURES.



   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be shown for natural features
such as trees, unusual rock formations and watercourses; for sites which have
historical significance; and for similar assets which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and value to the subdivision and to the community. The
Planning Commission may prepare a list of all these types of features within
its area of subdivision jurisdiction which it deems worthy of preservation.



(2004 Code, § 153.70)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.071  MONUMENTS.



   (A)   All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot corners,
street intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall be
marked with survey monuments consisting of minimum five-eighths inch steel
rods 24 inches in length. Inscribed on the monument or cap, according to
state statute, shall be the registration number of the land surveyor making
the survey.



   (B)   All national, state, county and other official benchmarks,
monuments or triangulation station in or adjacent to the property shall be
preserved in precise position.



(2004 Code, § 153.71)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.072  PUBLIC SITES, OPEN SPACES AND BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the jurisdiction of the Parks, Recreation and Community Education Advisory
Board, Light Traffic Task Force, Planning Commission and City Council.



   (A)   In subdividing land or resubdividing an existing plat, due
consideration shall be given to the subdivision and by the planning
committees upon review, to the dedication or reservation of suitable sites
for schools, conservation areas, bicycle and pedestrian paths or open spaces
and parks. Where a proposed public park, bicycle and pedestrian path,
recreational area or open space, as determined by the Comprehensive Plan,
Planning Commission and Council, is located in whole or in part within a
subdivision, the subdivider shall dedicate those lands to the city; provided,
however, that, the total dedication (exclusive of public streets, alleys and
pedestrian ways, and exclusive of all other purchased sites such as fire and
police stations, water towers and treatment plants and sewer lift stations)
shall be consistent with the following requirements.



      (1)   For land within a residential zone, formulas for land
dedication shall be as follows:



         (a)   For Zoning Districts R-1: a land dedication of
7.5% of the undeveloped site or its fair market land value;



         (b)   For Zoning Districts R-2: a land dedication of 12%
of the undeveloped site or its fair market land value;



         (c)   For Zoning Districts R-3 and R-4: a land
dedication of 15% of the undeveloped site or its fair market land value;



         (d)   For Zoning Districts Commercial and I/C-1: a
negotiated percentage of land dedication of the undeveloped site or its fair
market land value; and



         (e)   For business park or industrial zoned subdivision:
none required, with exception of comprehensively planned bicycle and
pedestrian paths which shall be by easement.



      (2)   Infrastructure assessment costs incurred with any of the
land dedication above shall be calculated and levied against the bicycle and
pedestrian paths, park or open space by linear foot of frontage. In no case
shall the assessment cost levied against the park or bicycle and pedestrian
path exceed 60% of the value of the land dedicated.



      (3)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



         FAIR MARKET LAND VALUE. The market value of the land within
the plat or subdivision as of the date presented to the Council for
preliminary approval, as determined by the City Assessor, or the sale price,
whichever is higher, in the same manner as they shall determine the estimated
market value of land for tax purposes, excluding from that determination any
value added to the land by improvements serving the land, but including in
that determination the highest and best force at the time of the platting.



      (4)   The city shall have the option of requiring a cash
contribution in lieu of the land dedication set forth in division (A)(1)
above. Cash contribution shall be based on the following schedule:



         (a)   Zoning District R-1: a cash contribution of $215
per unit;



         (b)   Zoning District R-2: a cash contribution of $175
per unit;



         (c)   Zoning District R-3 or R-4: a cash contribution of
$135 per unit;



         (d)   Zoning District Commercial and I/C-1: a negotiated
cash contribution based on its fair market land value; or



         (e)   Business park or industrial zoned subdivision:
none required.



      (5)   The city may permit or require the subdivider to provide
a partial dedication and a partial payment in accordance with the
requirements as set forth above.



      (6)   The cash and land dedication value set forth above shall
be reviewed by the Parks, Recreation and Community Education Advisory Board
and the Light Traffic Task Force on an annual basis and a revised schedule,
if any, shall be set forth by the Council.



   (B)   When structures are constructed on property which has been
previously platted and on which plat no park or bicycle and pedestrian path
dedication on record in cash or land was given to the city, a park or bicycle
and pedestrian path dedication fee in accordance with the schedules
hereinafter set forth shall be paid at the time of the subdivision agreement
or when the building permit is issued. If the park or bicycle and pedestrian
path dedication as indicated on record has been previously satisfied at the
time of platting in accordance with the requirements then in existence, then
no further fee shall be levied. If a partial payment has been made, then the
balance of the development shall be charged the rate set forth in division
(A)(1) above.



   (C)   When building permits are issued on property which is not
platted and is not required to be platted prior to receiving a building
permit, a fee shall be paid at the time of building permit issuance in
accordance with the above schedule.



   (D)   Sums of money so received by the city shall be placed in a
special account to be known as the Public Sites and Equipment Fund and
allocated by the Council solely for the acquisition of land or purchase of
equipment for public parks, recreation areas or open spaces, bicycle and
pedestrian path development of existing parks and recreational areas, or debt
retirement in connection with the land or equipment previously acquired for
parks, bicycle and pedestrian paths, recreational areas or open areas.



   (E)   For soil and water conservation, pursuant to state statute,
the following may be required. The subdivider shall be responsible for
providing site development plans with provisions for the control of drainage,
erosion and siltation if plans are considered necessary by the City Engineer
or by law, for the purpose of soil and water conservation.



   (F)   In high density zoning districts, the Council may require
developments of 24 units or more to create a private entity to maintain some
form of on-site recreation for use by the site residents; specifically
pre-school children. The Council will use the Park and Open Space Study
definition of “tot lot area” as a minimum standard. This requirement may
be in addition to the dedication of land or cash for park or recreation
purposes.



(2004 Code, § 153.72)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.073  LAYOUT OF STREETS, BLOCKS AND BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the city.



   (A)   The subdivision shall be so designed as to be in harmony with
adjacent subdivisions and provide for the continuation of existing streets
and bicycle and pedestrian paths. Provisions shall be made for streets and
bicycle and pedestrian paths through the subdivision for the platting of
contiguous property. No strip of unplatted land or portion of street or
artifice shall be used or retained by the subdivider to impede the platting
of adjacent parcels.



   (B)   The street layout shall provide access adequate for emergency
and public service vehicles to all lots and parcels of land within the
subdivision.



   (C)   Where appropriate to the design, streets shall be established
to avoid jogs at intersections and to promote continuity of local streets and
those of higher classifications. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less
than 125 feet shall be discouraged.



   (D)   Streets shall be established to take advantage of the contour
of the land so as to produce usable lots, cause a minimum of cutting and
filling, and to produce streets with reasonable grades as defined in §
153.076 of this chapter.



   (E)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended
to the boundary line of the tract to provide for adequate circulation of
traffic within the vicinity.



   (F)   Streets shall intersect other streets as near to a 90-degree
angle as topography and other factors permit. Intersections of streets and
arterial or collector streets shall be limited to a minimum angle of 70
degrees unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission.



   (G)   Whenever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a
street, alley or bicycle and pedestrian path adjacent to the proposed
subdivision which conforms to the official map, the remainder of the street
or alley shall be platted to the prescribed width within the proposed
subdivision.



   (H)   Half-width streets shall be prohibited except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations. Where an existing half-width street
adjoins a portion of the boundary of a proposed subdivision, street
dedication in a width needed to make this a full-width street may be required.



   (I)   Street and right-of-way widths shall conform to those
indicated in the Transportation Plan. Where these widths are not prescribed
therein, the widths shall not be less than the minimum stated in § 153.074
of this chapter.



   (J)   Alleys shall be platted in the rear of all lots to be used for
commercial or industrial purposes. Alleys will not be approved in a
residential area, unless required by unusual topography or other exceptional
conditions.



   (K)   Lands abutting arterial or collector streets shall be platted
with the view of making the lots, if for residential use, desirable for that
use by cushioning the impact of heavy traffic on those traffic ways; and with
the view also of minimizing interference with traffic on those traffic ways
as well as the accident hazard. This may be accomplished in several ways:



      (1)   By not fronting the lots on the highway or thoroughfare
but on a parallel local street at a distance of a generous lot depth, in
which case private driveways shall connect with the local street; or



      (2)   By a collector street platted more or less parallel with
the highway or thoroughfare, 600 to 1,000 feet distance therefrom, from which
loop streets or dead end streets would extend toward the highway, the ends of
which provide access to the lots abutting the highway to their rear.



   (L)   Dead end streets will be approved if limited to 500 feet long;
provided, a permanently designed turnaround area, having a minimum radius to
the edge of the finished street or curb line of not less than 53 feet and a
minimum right-of-way radius of 60 feet, is constructed.



   (M)   Closed subdivisions (with one exit) shall not be permitted.



   (N)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of
lots of appropriate depth, unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission,
prevented by unusual topography or other physical conditions.



   (O)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks, and lots with
blocks, shall be determined with due regard to:



      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the
special needs of the principal and all required accessory uses;



      (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions, and
provisions regulating off-street parking and loading spaces;



      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and
safety of street traffic;



      (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography; and



      (5)   Generally, blocks shall not exceed 1,320 feet nor be
less than 500 feet in length measured along the greatest dimension of the
block.



   (P)   Residential blocks shall normally be of sufficient width for
two tiers of lots. Block lengths shall be determined by circulation and other
needs. Where residential blocks with lots deeper than 200 feet are proposed,
a reservation for a future street through the middle of the block,
longitudinally, may be required.



   (Q)   Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, shall be
required where deemed essential to provide circulation, or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.



   (R)   Bicycle and pedestrian paths shall be designed in accordance
with the FinnRa Standards and laid out in accordance with the
Bicycle/Pedestrian Comprehensive Plan, and shall be dedicated by easement.



   (S)   The number of intersecting streets along arterial and
collector streets shall be held to a minimum, and where practicable, blocks
along those traffic ways shall not be less than 800 feet in length.



(2004 Code, § 153.73)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995; Ord. 96-185, passed
12-10-1996)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 153.074  RIGHTS-OF-WAY; MINIMUM WIDTHS.



   (A)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths for streets and thoroughfares shall be shown in
the Comprehensive Plan, and where not shown therein, the minimum right-of-way
width for streets, arterial highways or pedestrian ways included in any
subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for each
classification as follows.



 

Right-of-Way Classification
 

Desirable Width

 

Acceptable Width





Alley
 

24 feet

 

20 feet



Collector street
 

80 feet

 

70 feet



Cul-de-sac
 

60-foot radius

 

60-foot radius



Local street
 


 

60 feet



Minor arterial highway, county road
 

100 feet

 

80 feet



Pedestrian way, bicycle path
 


 

10 feet*



Principal arterial highway
 

150 feet

 

100 feet



Service drive
 


 

40 feet



NOTES TO TABLE:

* See FinnRa Standards




 



   (B)   Where existing or anticipated traffic on principal and minor
arterial highways warrants greater widths of rights-of-way, these shall be
required.



(2004 Code, § 153.74)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.075  MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS; SURFACING.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission.



   (A)   Pavement widths for arterial and collector streets will be as
designated in the Transportation Plan. Where required to be provided as part
of the subdivision, the subdivider will be responsible for 37 feet. The
difference, if any, between the cost of the portion to be provided at the
expense of the subdivider including the cost of curb and gutter, if any, and
that of the total width designated in the Transportation Plan shall be borne
by the city, the county or the State Department of Transportation where
applicable, unless it is determined by the Council that the greater width
will benefit the subdivider in proportion to its cost.



   (B)   Local streets and dead end streets shall have minimum widths
of 37 feet. Where curb and gutter is required the total width, back to back
of curb, shall be 37 feet. The pavement of a turning circle at the end of a
dead end street shall have a minimum paved outside diameter of 53 feet to
back of curb.



   (C)   Alleys shall have minimum paved widths of 20 feet.



   (D)   Alleys, where permitted, will be constructed with a concrete
pavement of a minimum thickness of six inches or of asphaltic concrete of a
minimum thickness of four inches mat and ten inches base. This requirement
may be varied by the Council if, in its opinion, the requirement imposes too
severe a restriction when related to the projected use of the alley.



   (E)   The subdivider shall grade all streets from property line to
property line prior to installation of water and sewer facilities. Centerline
street grades are to be established by the subdivider subject to approval of
the City Engineer.



   (F)   The subdivider shall, after grading streets and after sanitary
sewer, storm sewer and water mains are in, construct a minimum of six-inch
compacted gravel street 37 feet in width. The grading and graveling of the
street includes installation of culverts necessary for over the ground
drainage until curb and gutter is installed.



   (G)   Streets shall be graded full width and fully constructed with
a concrete pavement of a minimum thickness of six inches or of asphaltic
concrete of a minimum thickness of four inches mat and ten inches base, or of
a construction standard and material approved by the City Engineer, in
writing. If the classification of the street justifies the construction of a
thicker section, the additional cost thereof shall be borne by the city, the
county or the State Department of Transportation, depending upon the agency
having jurisdiction.



   (H)   The subdivider shall within one year provide for the
construction of curb and gutter within the confines of the platted area;
provided, however, the Council may extend this period where unusual drainage
problems exist and the drainage cannot be installed prior to or with the curb
and gutter construction, as outlined in a subdivision agreement.



   (I)   The subdivider shall within two years provide for the
construction of the street surface within the confines of the platted area;
provided, however, the Council may extend this period, as outlined in the
subdivision agreement.



(2004 Code, § 153.75)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.076  STREET GRADES AND CURVES; SIGN DISTANCES.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the city.



   (A)   The grades of any street or alley shall not be less than 0.4%.
Where specifically approved by the City Engineer, alleys may be designed with
0.25% grade when constructed with concrete pavement.



   (B)   The grades in all streets, arterial highways, collector
streets, minor streets and alleys in any subdivision shall not be greater
than the maximum grades for each classification as follows.



 

Type of Street or Way
 

Maximum Grade





Alley
 

8%



Collector street
 

6%



Local street
 

8%



Minor arterial highway
 

6%



Pedestrian way
 

20%*



Principal arterial highway
 

6%



NOTES TO TABLE:

* Grade of pedestrian way may be increased if steps of an acceptable design
are provided.





 



   (C)   All changes in street grade of 1% or more shall be connected
by vertical curves. The length of the vertical curve will be determined on
the basis of providing stop sign distances for each road classification where
design speed for arterial and collector streets is 40 mph and 25 mph for
local streets. In no case shall the length of the required vertical curve be
less than 15 times the algebraic difference in rate of grades for arterial
and collector streets or one-half of this minimum for all other streets.



   (D)   The radius of curvature on the centerline of the street shall
not be less than that required to produce stop sign distance as defined in
division (C) above. In no case, however, shall the radius of curvature for
arterial and collector streets be less than 300 feet, or be less than 100
feet for local streets, service drives and alleys.



(2004 Code, § 153.76)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.077  INTERSECTIONS.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the city.



   (A)   At a street intersection, the street curb intersection shall
be rounded by a radius of at least 15 feet.



   (B)   Where, in the opinion of the Engineer, the centerline profiles
of streets presented as part of the preliminary plat do not clearly indicate
that adequate intersection design will be accomplished, the Planning
Commission may request an intersection detail at a scale not to exceed one
inch equals 20 feet, which detail will clearly represent the construction
details for the intersection.



   (C)   Intersections shall be designed so as to avoid abrupt changes
in longitudinal or transverse slope.



(2004 Code, § 153.77)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.078  LOTS.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the city.



   (A)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate
for the location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of Ch. 154 of
this code.



   (B)   Excessive depth in relation to widths shall be avoided. A
proportion of not more than three to one normally shall be considered
appropriate.



   (C)   Every lot shall abut on a street. Lots for residential
purposes shall meet the size requirements of Ch. 154 , and also the
requirements relative to building setback and side yard requirements.



   (D)   Residential lots fronting on arterial and collector streets
should have extra depth to permit deep setbacks for the buildings.



   (E)   Double frontage lots and reversed frontage lots shall not be
platted, except as hereinbefore permitted under § 153.073 of this chapter.



   (F)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the
right-of-way line of the street on which the lot fronts.



   (H)   Narrow, triangular lots, unusual shapes and lots not
permitting at least a 26-foot width house with side yards and driveway, rear
yards and front yards are prohibited. No plat will be accepted that contains
lots undesirable for building, property subject to recurrent flooding,
property at grades greater than 8% or other factors that may cause the
properties to be marginal in building operations and cause the property to be
returned for property taxes.



(2004 Code, § 153.78)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.079  WATER AND SEWER LINES; DRAINAGE.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the city.



   (A)   Water lines. Where an approved public water supply is within
reasonable access to the subdivision as determined by the number of lots,
distance from and capacity of existing mains, water lines shall be placed
within the right-of-way of each street.



      (1)   Water lines shall have a minimum diameter of six inches.
Fire hydrants shall be installed at intervals of not less than 400 feet. The
minimum size water main shall be six inches in diameter and all water mains
shall be looped so that water is available from two directions to any point.
Water mains, fire hydrants, gate valves and appurtenances shall be installed
in accordance with acceptable engineering practice.



      (2)   Each lot shall be provided with a connection to the
water main. In general, in new residential areas, water main services with a
shutoff shall be installed to appropriate public recreational areas with the
water main construction.



   (B)   Sanitary sewers. Sanitary sewers shall be constructed in
accordance with a connection to a sanitary sewer. The city may accept an area
for platting where that service cannot be provided when the lots are of
sufficient size and the soil is suitable for private systems in accordance
with city and state Health Department recommendations. No private disposal
systems shall be interconnected or run to a common private or public drain.
The minimum size public sanitary sewer shall be eight inches in diameter. In
general, in new residential areas, sanitary sewer services shall be installed
to appropriate public recreational areas with the sewer construction. Sewage
lift stations will be constructed if necessary to serve an area; provided, a
lift station will be constructed on an assessment basis. The lift station
cost beyond the area immediately assessable will be held for future
assessment to the future area to be served.



   (C)   Storm drainage. All necessary facilities including underground
pipe, manholes, inlets, catch basins and other appurtenances necessary to
provide adequate drainage for the property or to maintain any natural
drainage course shall be the responsibility of the developer. Open drainage
ditches will not be allowed unless specifically directed by the City Engineer.



      (1)   Platting of property is prohibited unless it is possible
to drain the property by gravity drainage to the natural drainage course for
the area. At a minimum, no property plat will be accepted unless street
grades are at least five feet above lake elevation so as to drain into the
streets. The meeting of this requirement does not obligate the Council to
accept the plat if there are substantial obstructions to the drainage of the
property contained therein, and the Council may require that the subdivider
install pumping facilities for storm drainage prior to plat acceptance if
those facilities are necessary.



      (2)   Storm drainage and retention ponds shall be required and
designed in accordance with state statutes.



   (D)   Extensions not in platted area. In some cases, the proposed
area to be platted will not be served at its borders by water mains or
sanitary sewer. The Council may require a petition for the creation of an
assessment district to extend the facilities to the platted area; or may
require the subdivider to pay the cost of extension; or may accept the plat
with a separate water or sewer system; or may pay the cost thereof and hold
the amount for future assessment; or may refuse acceptance of the plat.



   (E)   Building permit. No building permit shall be issued in the
platted area until sewer and water mains are designed, approved and the
contract for installation awarded with a satisfactory completion date.



      (1)   No building shall be occupied in the platted area until
provided with sanitary sewer and water service and until the street is
graveled and the graveling accepted as adequate by the City Engineer to serve
the building.



      (2)   The occupancy of a building in violation of this
division (E) shall not relieve the subdivider of any responsibility for
street improvement. The transfer of property in the plat from the original
subdivider to other parties shall not relieve the subdivider of the
responsibility for initial street work as defined herein.



   (F)   Design of improvements. The City Engineer will design only the
improvements to be installed by the city. A subdivider desiring to contract
and install his or her own improvements shall have plans and specifications
prepared by a registered engineer of the state, which have been approved by
the City Engineer and state agencies before construction begins. All street,
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water main improvements installed by the
subdivider shall be inspected by the City Engineer, and the Engineer shall
furnish a written statement to the subdivider of city acceptance of the
utility improvements or street as part of the city system. Any corrections to
the improvements found necessary by the City Engineer shall be done by and at
the expense of the subdivider before acceptance is made.



(2004 Code, § 153.79)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.080  SIDEWALKS; DRIVEWAYS.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the jurisdiction of the city.



   (A)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks at least five feet wide, constructed of
concrete pavement with a minimum thickness of four inches, shall be
constructed on both sides of every street where the average width of lots is
less than 60 feet. Sidewalks shall be constructed on one or both sides of
collector and arterial streets irrespective of the width of lots where, in
the opinion of the Planning Commission, these are necessary to protect the
safety of pedestrians.



   (B)   Driveways. The subdivider shall install driveways, driveway
approaches and curb returns for each connection to the street.



(2004 Code, § 153.80)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.081  SCREEN PLANTING.



   (A)   The following requirement is applicable to all subdivisions
within the jurisdiction of the city.



   (B)   The installation of trees and shrubs to form a tight screen,
effective at all times, shall be required along the rear line of any lot in
the subdivision which backs onto an arterial or collector street.



(2004 Code, § 153.81)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.082  STREET NAMES; SIGNS.



   The following requirements are applicable to all subdivisions within
the jurisdiction of the city.



   (A)   Street names. All streets are to be named. A proposed street
which is in alignment with and which joins an existing and named street shall
be given the name of the existing street. The name of a proposed street shall
not duplicate the name of an existing street to which it does not connect or
with which it is not in alignment.



   (B)   Street name signs. Reflectorized street name signs shall be
provided at all street intersections or where a change of direction of a
street requires a change of street name. The signs shall be of the size and
type approved for use by the city. Normally, one sign will be required at
each residential intersection; however, more may be required, dependent upon
the character and width of the streets.



(2004 Code, § 153.82)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.083  EASEMENTS.



   (A)   An easement for utilities, at least six feet wide, shall be
provided along each side of a side line of lots and the rear line of lots
where necessary to form a continuous right-of-way at least ten feet in width.
These easements are to be dedicated and provide for utility service from
street to street. The intent of these easements is to furnish utility service
from the rear of the lots to buildings. If necessary for the extension of
main water or sewer lines, electrical transformer pads or similar utilities,
easements of greater width may be required along lot lines or across lots.
Utility easements of at least 10% in width shall be provided along the front
lot lines adjacent to street right-of-way.



   (B)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. These easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be
changed without the approval of the Council, by ordinance, upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.



   (C)   Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the
outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the
exterior angle so that pole guys will fall along side lot lines.



   (D)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
way, channel or stream, a storm water easement, drainage right-of-way or park
dedication, whichever the Planning Commission may deem the most adequate,
conforming substantially with the lines of that watercourse, shall be
provided, together with further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the storm water drainage of the area. The width of these
easements shall be determined by the Planning Commission.



(2004 Code, § 153.83)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.084  PUBLIC UTILITIES.



   (A)   All new electric distribution lines (excluding main line
feeders and high voltage transmission lines), telephone service lines, cable
television and services constructed within the confines of and providing
service to customers in a newly platted residential area shall be buried
underground, unless the Council specifically shall find, after study and
recommendation by the Planning Commission, that:



      (1)   The placing of utilities underground would not be
compatible with the development planned;



      (2)   The additional cost of burying the utilities would
create an undue financial hardship; or



      (3)   Topographical, soil or any other conditions make the
underground installation unreasonable or impractical.



   (B)   All utility lines for telephone and electrical service shall
be placed in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles. The Planning
Commission may recommend, and the Council require, that the type of overhead
pole used be of a quality and durability aesthetically in conformance with
the nature of the residential development.



   (C)   Where telephone, electric or gas service lines are to be
placed underground entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within
easements or dedicated public ways in a manner so as not to conflict with
other underground services.



   (D)   All drainage and other underground utility installations which
traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements.



   (E)   The subdivider is responsible for complying with the
requirements of this section, and shall submit to the Planning Commission a
written record from the utilities showing that the necessary arrangements
with the utility involved for the installation of these facilities have been
made.



(2004 Code, § 153.84)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.085  TREE PLANTING IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS.



   (A)   The subdivider shall be required to escrow dollars, as part of
the subdivider’s agreement, for the purpose of having the city plant trees
and/or provide soil adjustments on the boulevard areas within the
development. The City Council may decide, based on financial considerations,
that it may not be in the best interest of the city and therefore may waive
tree planting requirements if they so desire.



   (B)   The rate of escrow shall be determined by the wholesale cost
of two trees per lot (two-inch caliper deciduous or six-foot height
coniferous minimum size), as established by resolution. The subdivider shall
only be responsible for the cost of the trees. The planting and maintenance
of the trees shall be conducted by the city. Species and location of the
trees and the need for soil adjustment shall  be determined by the city. The
planting of the trees will take place a significant portions of the
development are occupied.



(2004 Code, § 153.85)  (Ord. 03-336, passed 3-25-2003)




ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT




§ 153.100  MODIFICATION AND EXCEPTIONS.



   (A)   Major subdivisions. The general principles of design and
minimum requirements for the layout of subdivisions set forth above in §§
153.065 through 153.084 of this chapter may be varied by the Council in the
case of a subdivision large enough to constitute a more or less
self-contained neighborhood which is to be developed in accordance with a
comprehensive plan safeguarded by appropriate restrictions, and which, in the
judgment of the Council, makes adequate provision for all essential community
requirements; provided, however, that, no modification shall be granted by
the Council which would conflict with the proposals of the official map or
with the other features of the city’s Comprehensive Plan, or with the
intent and purposes of the general principles of design and minimum
requirements hereinabove.



   (B)   Small subdivision. In the case of a subdivision of small size
and minor importance, situated in a locality where conditions are
well-defined, and containing not more than two lots fronting on an existing
street, not involving any new street or road or the extension of municipal
facilities and not adversely affecting the adjoining property, the Council
may exempt stipulated in §§ 153.035 through 153.039 of this chapter
pertaining to the preparation of the preliminary plat. All subdivisions
larger than two lots shall follow platting requirements. Large lots capable
of being subdivided into more than two parcels shall be allowed only one lot
subdivision, after which platting of further subdivisions is required.



   (C)   Unusual physical conditions. In any particular case where the
subdivider can show that, by reason of exceptional topographic or other
physical conditions, strict compliance with any requirement of this chapter
would cause unusual difficulty or exceptional and undue hardship, the Council
may relax that requirement to the extent deemed just and proper, so as to
relieve the difficulty and undue hardship; provided that, this relief may be
granted without detriment to the public good and without impairing the intent
and purposes of these regulations or the desirable general development of the
neighborhood and the community in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and
Ch. 154 of this code. Any modification thus granted shall be entered in the
minutes of the Council setting forth the reasons which, in the opinion of the
Council, justified the modification.



(2004 Code, § 153.95)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.101  VARIANCES.



   (A)   The Council may grant a variance from these regulations
following a finding that all of the following conditions exist:



      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting
the property so that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;



      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the petitioner; and



      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which
the property is situated.



   (B)   In making this finding, the Council shall consider the nature
of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the
number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the
probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the
vicinity. In granting a variance as herein provided, the Council shall
prescribe only conditions that it deems desirable or necessary to the public
interest.



   (C)   Application for any variance as described above shall be made
in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed
for the consideration of the Planning Commission and the Council, stating
fully and clearly all facts relied upon by the petitioner, and shall be
supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data which may aid the
Planning Commission and the Council in the analysis of the proposed project.
The plans for the development shall include covenants, restrictions or other
legal provisions as necessary to guarantee the full achievement of the plan.
In all cases where applications for variance are submitted for conditional
approval along with the preliminary plat, the action on that conditional
approval shall issue from the Council.



(2004 Code, § 153.96)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



§ 153.102  PLAT RECORDING; LAND TRANSFER.



   (A)   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder or shall have any validity until it has
been approved by the Council in the manner described herein.



   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner or the agent of the owner to
transfer or sell any land by reference to or by other use of a plat or
description unless the plat has been approved by the Council as required
herein.



(2004 Code, § 153.97)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)  Penalty, see § 10.99



§ 153.103  SCHEDULE OF FEES ADOPTED.



   The schedule of fees shall be available at the city offices and may be
altered or amended only by the Council. No plat shall be reviewed until all
fees have been paid in full.



(2004 Code, § 153.98)  (Ord. 466, passed 7-15-1995)



CHAPTER 154: ZONING



Section




General Provisions




   154.001   Intent and purpose



   154.002   Interpretation



   154.003   Compliance



   154.004   Definitions




General Requirements




   154.015   Compliance



   154.016   Minimum requirements



   154.017   Building requirements



   154.018   Area requirements



   154.019   Single-family dwelling on lot of record



   154.020   Single- and two-family dwelling on large lot



   154.021   One principal building on R-1 or R-2 lot



   154.022   Exceptions to height limitations



   154.023   Exceptions to yard and frontage limitations



   154.024   Yard space; encroachments; steep slopes



   154.025   Zero lot line housing



   154.026   Accessory buildings



   154.027   Wind energy conversion systems




Zoning Districts and Maps




   154.040   Districts established; official zoning map adopted



   154.041   Annexed or vacated territory; district classification



   154.042   District boundaries; interpretation




District Regulations; Use Requirements and Restrictions




   154.055   Structures in R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Districts



   154.056   R-1, Single-Family Residential District



   154.057   R-2, Medium Density Residential District



   154.058   R-3, Medium-High Density Residential District



   154.059   R-4, High Density Residential District



   154.060   R-5, Manufactured Home Park



   154.061   C-1, Neighborhood Convenience Commercial District



   154.062   C-2, Automotive Service Commercial District



   154.063   C-3, Central Commercial District



   154.064   C-4, Fringe Commercial District



   154.065   C-5, Conditional Commercial District



   154.066   I/C, Industrial/Commercial District



   154.067   I-1, Light Industrial Park District



   154.068   I-2, Heavy Industry District



   154.069   BP, Business Park District



   154.070   PD, Planned Development District



   154.071   GT, Gateway District



   154.072   MXD, Mixed Use District




Flood Plain Management




   154.085   Statutory authority; purpose



   154.086   General provisions



   154.087   Definitions



   154.088   Districts established; compliance required



   154.089   FW, Floodway District



   154.090   FF, Flood Fringe District



   154.091   GF, General Floodplain District



   154.092   Land development standards



   154.093   Public utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges



   154.094   Manufactured homes, manufactured home parks, and
recreational vehicles



   154.095   Administration



   154.096   Nonconformities; continuance of nonconformities



   154.097   Violations; remedies



   154.098   Amendments




Development Standards




   154.110   Bed and breakfast establishments; conditions; licensing



   154.111   Automotive service stations; standards



   154.112   Car washes; standards



   154.113   Temporary recycling collection location; standards;
licensing



   154.114   Pipeline setback



   154.115   Screening; landscaping; outdoor storage and display



   154.116   Off-street parking and loading



   154.117   Filling or removal of soil, sand or other materials



   154.118   Fences and walls



   154.119   Telecommunications



   154.120   Swimming pools



   154.121   Relocating structures



   154.122   Flammable liquids; storage or transfer



   154.123   Pole buildings/tube frame structures/temporary buildings



   154.124   Performance standards



   154.125   Addresses; streets and building numbers




Signs




   154.140   Purpose



   154.141   General requirements



   154.142   Sign standards by district



   154.143   Prohibited signs



   154.144   Amortization of non-conforming signs




Non-Conforming Lots, Uses and Structures




   154.155   Intent



   154.156   Non-conforming lots of record



   154.157   Non-conforming uses of land



   154.158   Non-conforming uses of structures



   154.159   Repairs and maintenance




Administration and Enforcement




   154.170   City Council powers



   154.171   Enforcement; Enforcement Officer



   154.172   Variances



   154.173   Ordinance amendments; land rezonings



   154.174   Site plan review



   154.175   Conditional uses



   154.176   Public hearings



   154.177   Fees, charges and expenses



   154.178   Consistency with state law



   154.179   Applications



   154.180   Final actions



   154.181   Additional extensions of time



   154.182   Applications for subdivision approval and building permits



 



   154.999   Penalty



   Appendix A: Dimensional Requirements by District



   Appendix B: Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements



GENERAL PROVISIONS



§ 154.001  INTENT AND PURPOSE.



   The intent and purpose of this chapter shall be:



   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings
hereafter to be erected;



   (B)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines
on or along any street, traffic way, drive or parkway;



   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces within and surrounding
buildings hereafter to be erected;



   (D)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential and other uses;



   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such
number, shape and area, and of such different classes according to use of
land and buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of use of lot
areas, area of open spaces and other classifications, as may be deemed best
suited to regulate development;



   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein
shall conform;



   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with
the character of established districts;



   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of
existing buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions
and limitations lawfully imposed;



   (I)   To classify, regulate and restrict the use of property on the
basis of land use relationship;



   (J)   To provide for variations from these regulations, standards,
restrictions and limitations;



   (K)   To provide for conditional uses, including planned
development, within the established districts;



   (L)   To provide administrative bodies and procedures as shall be
necessary to the implementation and enforcement of the various provisions of
this chapter;



   (M)   To provide for the orderly amendment of this chapter; and



   (N)   To provide regulations pertaining to pre-existing lots,
structures and uses which do not conform to the regulations, standards,
restrictions and limitations established by this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.001)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.002  INTERPRETATION.



   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion
of the public health, safety, comfort, morals and general welfare.



   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter impose greater
restriction than those of any statute, other ordinance or regulation, the
provisions of this chapter shall be controlling. Where the provisions of any
statute, other ordinance or regulation impose greater restrictions than this
chapter, the provisions of that statute, other ordinance or regulation shall
be controlling.



(2004 Code, § 154.002)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.003  COMPLIANCE.



   (A)   All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or
building(s) established hereafter, all structural alteration or relocation of
existing buildings occurring hereafter and all enlargements of or additions
to existing uses occurring hereafter, shall be subject to all regulations of
this chapter which are applicable to the zoning district in which those
buildings, uses or land shall be located.



   (B)   However, where a building permit for a building or structure
has been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this
chapter, which has not by its terms expired prior to the effective date; and,
provided that, construction is begun before the permit’s expiration and
within one year of its effective date and diligently pursued to completion,
that building or structure may be completed in accordance with the approved
plans on the basis of which the building permit was issued and further, may
upon completion be occupied under a certificate of occupancy by the use for
which originally designated, subject thereafter to the provisions of this
chapter relating to non-conformities.



(2004 Code, § 154.003)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.004  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
in addition to the definitions given in the Uniform Building and Fire Codes,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of the main
building which is located on the same lot as the main building and the use of
which is clearly incidental to the use of the main building.



   ACCESSORY USE. A use or structure subordinate to the principal use of
the land or a building on the same lot and serving a purpose customarily
incidental to the principal use of the structure.



   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.



   AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA TOWER. A tower designed and used in accordance
with an amateur radio station license issued by the U.S. Federal
Communications Commission.



   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
radiating electromagnetic signals, including, but not limited to, directional
ANTENNAS such as panels, microwave dishes and satellite dishes and
omnidirectional ANTENNAS such as whip antennas.



   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-use building arranged
and intended as a place of residence for a single family or a group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.



   APARTMENT BUILDING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied
as the home or residence of three or more families living independently of
each other and doing their own cooking in that building, and shall include
flats or apartments.



   ARTERIAL STREET, MINOR. County state aid highways and major local
streets designated in the Comprehensive Plan of the city.



   ARTERIAL STREET, PRINCIPAL. Highways 7, 15 or 22 as designated by the
Comprehensive Plan of the city.



   AUTOMOBILE WASH or CAR WASH. Any building or premises, or portion
thereof, the use of which is devoted to the business of washing automobiles
for a fee whether by automated cleaning devices or otherwise.



   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises, or portion
thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sale of
automobile fuels, which activity may be accompanied by accessory uses such as
sale of lubricants, tires, accessories or supplies, or minor repairing of
automobiles.



   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES LOT. An open area other than a street, used
for the display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.



   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING, SALVAGE YARD. The dismantling or disassembling of
used motor vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of
dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.



   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of excavation below ground level.



   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A structure designed and used as a
residence in which one or more bedrooms are rented to transient guests on a
day-to-day basis and in which meals are served to these overnight guests.



   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling where meals or lodging, or both, are
provided for compensation to three or more persons, who are not transients,
by prearrangement for definite periods, in contradistinction to hotels and
motels, as herein defined.



   BUFFER. The use of land, topography (differences in elevation), space,
fences or landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a tract of
property from another tract of property and thus reduce undesirable
influences such as sight, noise, dust and other external effects which a land
use may have upon other adjacent or nearby land uses.



   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals or property. When a
structure is completely divided into parts by an unpierced wall or walls
extending from the ground to the top of the structure, each part shall be
deemed a separate BUILDING. BUILDING does not include structures for
essential services, as defined herein.



   BUILDING LINE. An imaginary line on a development site corresponding
with the series of points where an exterior building wall meets the grade of
the earth.



   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise
is exhibited or sold or rented, or which occupies time, attention, labor or
materials, or where services are offered for compensation.



   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
and having half or more than half its clear floor to ceiling height below
grade.



   CLINIC. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight,
are admitted for examination and treatment by one or more of a group of
physicians or dentists, or both, practicing together.



   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from local streets to
or from arterial streets or between arterial streets. It includes the
principal entrance streets of a residential development and those principal
streets used for circulation within a residential development.



   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE FACILITY. A facility that
transmits and/or receives electromagnetic signals. It includes antennas,
microwave dishes, horns and other types of equipment for the transmission or
receipt of this type of signals, telecommunication towers or similar
structures supporting that equipment, equipment buildings, parking areas and
other accessory development and related equipment.



   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed commercial
wireless telecommunication services including cellular, personal
communications services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar services that are
marketed to the general public.



   COMMUNICATION TOWER. A structure which is designed to support an
antenna and all supporting lines, cables, wires and braces.



   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Unless otherwise stated, the general plan for land
use, transportation and community facilities prepared and maintained by the
city.



   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land not normally allowed in a particular
zoning district, but which may be allowed under certain conditions. A
CONDITIONAL USE is also used for establishing setbacks in I-C1 Zones.



   CONVENIENCE FOOD RESTAURANT. A business whose principal function is the
sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-eat
state for consumption either within the premises or for carry-out with
consumption either on or off the premises, and whose design or principal
method of operation includes both of the following characteristics:



      (1)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are usually served
in edible containers or in paper, styrofoam or other disposable containers;
and



      (2)   The customer is not served food at his or her table by
an employee, but receives it at a counter, window or similar facility for
carrying to another location on or off the premises for consumption.



   CONVENIENCE STORE. A store selling on a retail basis food for
consumption off the premises along with other items including gasoline;
differentiated from a grocery store by its size of not more than 5,000 square
feet.



   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the junction of and fronting on two or
more streets.



   CULTURAL ESTABLISHMENT. A facility used by a business or not-for-profit
organization dedicated to exhibits, learning or services in the performing or
visual arts, music, history, literature, religion or similar aspects of
advanced civilization.



   DAY CARE CENTER. A business in which not more than ten children receive
adult supervision and meals in the temporary daily absence of their parents.
A similar business with fewer than ten children is considered a home
occupation.



   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the provisions of
this chapter are uniform.



   DOG DAYCARE. The boarding and regular care for dogs (no holidays,
weekends or over-nights) with indoor and outdoor enclosed kennel runs. There
would be no more than 12 dogs on the property at any one time.



   DOG KENNEL. Any place where four or more dogs over six months of age
are owned, kept, boarded, bred or offered for sale, except as provided for in
§ 93.17 if this code of ordinances.



   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling.



   DWELLING CLUSTER OR GROUP. A group of two or more detached dwellings
located on a parcel of land and having any yard or court in common.



   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling, including its attached garage, if any,
which is entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.



   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by more
than two families.



   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for and occupied
by not more than one family.



   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for and occupied by no more
than two families.



   DWELLING UNIT. A residential accommodation including complete kitchen
facilities permanently installed which is arranged, designed, used or
intended for use as living quarters for one household and not more than one
roomer or boarder. Where a private garage is structurally attached, it shall
be considered as part of the building in which the DWELLING UNIT is located.



   EARTH SHELTER. Constructed so that more than 50% of the exterior
surface area of the building, excluding garages or other accessory buildings,
is covered with earth and the State Building Code standards are satisfied.
Partially completed buildings shall not be considered EARTH SHELTERED.



   EASEMENT. A right held by others to use one’s land for a specified
purpose or purposes.



   ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. A facility used by a business or a
not-for-profit organization providing play, amusement or relaxation
activities, not including the sale or consumption of alcohol.



   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that flood plain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows. This is determined
by considering the effect of encroachment on the hydraulic efficiency of the
flood plain along both sides of a stream for a significant reach.



   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Overhead or underground electrical, telephone, gas,
stream or water transmission or distribution systems and structures, or
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems and structures,
operated by public and quasi-public utilities or governmental departments or
commissions or as are required for protection or the public health, safety or
general welfare, including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes and police call boxes, and
accessories in connection therewith, but not including buildings.



   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or
guardianship. A FAMILY may also be composed of members of a common
housekeeping management unit, all of the members of which have common use and
access to all living and eating areas, bathrooms and food preparation and
serving areas and which is based on an intentionally structured relationship
providing organization and stability. A FAMILY also includes a state licensed
FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.



   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A single-family home, duplex or apartment unit
providing day care for no more than ten children, including the day care
operator’s children, under five years of age.



   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or in the stage of a wetland or
lake which results in inundation of the areas adjacent to the channel that
are normally dry.



   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.



   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood
Insurance Study for the city.



   FLOOD PEAK. The highest value of stage or discharge attained during a
flood event; thus peak stage or discharge.



   FLOOD PLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.



   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT. The full range of public policy and action for
insuring wise use of the flood plains. It includes everything from collection
and dissemination of flood control information to actual acquisition of flood
plain lands, construction of flood control measures and enactment and
administration of codes, ordinances and statutes regarding flood plain land
use.



   FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS. The full range of codes, ordinances and other
regulations relating to the use of land and construction within flood plain
limits. The term encompasses zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations and
sanitary and building codes.



   FLOOD PROFILE. A graph or a longitudinal plot of water surface
elevations of a flood event along a reach of a stream or river.



   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for
the reduction or elimination of flood damages to properties, water and
sanitary facilities, structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard
area.



   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining flood plains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge
the regional flood.



   FLOOR AREA. For a building, the sum of the gross horizontal areas of
the several floors of the building, measured from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls or from the centerline of a wall separating two buildings. The
FLOOR AREA of a building shall include basement floor area, but shall not
include cellar floor area.



   FLOOR AREA RATIO or FAR. For the building or buildings on any lot or
site area, the gross floor area of the building or buildings on that lot or
site divided by the area of that lot. When used in this chapter, the FLOOR
AREA RATIO multiplied by the lot or site area in question produces the
maximum amount of floor that may be constructed on that lot or site area.



   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A family home where children out of their own homes
are cared for 24 hours a day for a period of 30 days or more.



   FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street, measured
along that street, between an intersecting street and another intersecting
street, a right-of-way, waterway, end of a dead end street or municipal
boundary.



   GARAGE. An accessory building, or part of a principal building, used
primarily for the parking of automobiles owned or operated by the residents
of dwellings located on the lot on which it is located. All new homes shall
either have an attached or detached garage of at least 400 square feet.
Garages less than 400 square feet, but larger than 240 square feet, are
allowed by conditional use permit. Garages less than 240 square feet are not
allowed. Driveways shall be constructed of concrete, bituminous, block pavers
or some other dust free material, as approved by the City Engineer and/or
Planning Director. Gravel, crushed limestone, rock, sand, bitcon (crushed
bituminous and/or concrete) or other similar materials are not considered
dust free.



   GRADE.



      (1)   For buildings more than five feet from any street line,
the average level of the finished surface adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building; or



      (2)   For buildings having one or more exterior walls within
five feet of a street line or lines, the average of the elevations of the
sidewalk or sidewalks, or their equivalent established ground surface,
adjacent to the street line or lines.



   GREEN SPACE. The portions of a site landscaped with ground cover such
as grass and, possibly, trees and shrubs.



   GROUP HOME. A specialized residential facility that provides care on a
24-hour basis for a selected group and providing specialized care and a
planned treatment program under the direction and control of an agency,
institution or independent operator. Children of the GROUP HOME parents under
the age of 21 years present in the home are included in the total number of
children permitted to live in the home. See state statutes.



   HALF STORY. The portion of a building under a sloping gable, hip or
gambrel roof, the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior
walls are not more than three feet above the floor of the story. No HALF
STORY shall be used for occupancy except in conjunction with and by the
occupants of the floor immediately below it.



   HEIGHT OF BUILDING or STRUCTURE HEIGHT.



      (1)   The distance measured from the average existing ground
elevation adjoining the building at the front building line to the top of the
cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to a point on the
roof directly above the highest wall of a shed roof, to the uppermost point
on a round or other arch-type roof, or to the average distance of the highest
gable on a pitched or hip roof. References in this section to BUILDING HEIGHT
shall include and mean STRUCTURE HEIGHT, and if the structure is other than a
building, the height shall be measured from said average existing ground
elevation to the highest point of the structure.



      (2)   “Existing  ground elevation” means the lowest of
the following elevations:



         (a)   The grade approved at the time of the subdivision
creating the lot; and



         (b)   The grade at the time the building permit for a
principal structure on the lot is applied for.



      (3)   Retaining walls and/or artificial grades created by fill
may not be used to modify the measured building height to circumvent the
intent of the zoning ordinance. A survey may be required at the applicant’s
expense, to verify existing ground elevation and/or structure height, as
directed by the Planning Director.



   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation which is clearly incidental to the
principal use of the premises, is conducted by a resident occupant and does
not change the character of the principal use.



   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services and medical or
surgical care, primarily for inpatients, to three or more non-related
individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other
abnormal physical or mental conditions, and including as an integral part of
the institution related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient
facilities or training facilities.



   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the
public for compensation and which is open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to a boarding house, as herein defined. A HOTEL has more
than six guest rooms.



   HOUSEHOLD. Any number of individuals living together on a premises as a
single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house or hotel, as defined herein.



   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. The portion of the buildable parcel which has a
covering which does not permit water to percolate into the natural soil and
causes water to runoff the surface in greater quantities and at an increased
rate of flow than existed prior to development. IMPERVIOUS SURFACE shall
include, but not be limited to, buildings, all driveways and parking areas
(whether paved or not), sidewalks, patios, tennis and basketball courts,
covered decks, porches and other structures. Open, uncovered decks are not
considered IMPERVIOUS for the purposes of this chapter if they have a
pervious surface underneath and have at least one-eighth inch spacing between
the deck floor boards. Eaves and overhangs are not calculated as IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE. The use of patio blocks, paver bricks or gravel material, as well as
plastic landscape fabric are considered IMPERVIOUS SURFACES as a majority of
water runs-off the surface rather than being absorbed into natural soils
underneath. Some exceptions to these conditions may include paver blocks or
pavement systems engineered to be permeable with the underlying soils
suitable for infiltration. A survey may be required at the applicant’s
expense, to verify existing ground elevation and/or structure height, as
directed by the Planning Director.



   LAUNDROMAT. An establishment providing washing, drying or dry cleaning
machines on the premises for rental use to the general public for family
laundering purposes.



   LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing materials, not including manufacturing or packaging of those
materials, except incidentally.



   LIGHT INDUSTRY. The processing or fabrication of certain materials or
products where no process involved will produce noise, vibration, air
pollution, fire hazard or noxious emission which will disturb or endanger
neighboring properties.



   LINTEL SIGN SPACE. A horizontal space on the front facade of a building
immediately above and adjacent to a window or door. In older buildings, this
space was previously occupied by windows.



   LIVABLE FLOOR AREA. The square footage of floor area of a dwelling
measured from the outside of the exterior walls, but not including attics,
cellars, unfinished basements, open porches, breezeways and garages. Only
floor area having a ceiling height of seven feet, six inches or more shall be
considered as LIVABLE FLOOR AREA. An unfinished floor may be included as
LIVABLE FLOOR AREA provided plans are submitted to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer indicating in detail the layout of the rooms; and, provided further
that, rough plumbing, heating ducts and electric circuits are installed
during construction of the building.



   LOADING BERTH. An open, hard-surfaced area, (same as required for
parking lots) other than the street or public right-of-way, the principal use
of which is for the standing, loading and unloading of trucks and trailers. A
minimum area of 780 square feet, excluding access drives, is required.



   LOCAL STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for access
to the abutting properties and the local needs of a neighborhood.



   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, or a principal use, together with open spaces as are required
under this chapter, and having its principal frontage upon a street,
right-of-way or easement shown on a plat or survey which has been submitted
to and approved by the City Council.



   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection or junction or a lot bounded on two sides by a curving street
where it is possible to draw two intersecting chords, one each commencing at
each of the two points of intersection of the lot lines and street line,
which intersect with each other to form an interior angle of less than 120
degrees.



   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the principal and accessory
buildings including gazebos and tool sheds, driveways (paved and gravel) and
decks and patios. The purpose of the regulations shall be to control the
amount of impervious surfaces which affect storm water infrastructure and the
environment.



   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the
rear lot lines.



   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.



   LOT FRONT. The portion of a lot abutting a public street. If a lot
abuts two public streets, the LOT FRONT is the narrower of the two lot edges.
On double frontage lots with equal edges, the LOT FRONT shall be the lot edge
at the front of the house.



   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.



   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot, as defined herein.



   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land that is recorded as a lot in a
subdivision that has been recorded on the records of the Recorder of the
county.



   LOT REAR. The portion of a lot directly parallel with the front
property line, but on irregular lots as shown in the sketch App. A of Ord.
464, § 3. On corner lots, the REAR shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension.



   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained in it, and which complies with the Manufactured
Home Building Code established by M.S. § 327.31, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time. See M.S. § 327.31, Subd. 3 and 6, as they may be
amended from time to time.



   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A lot, parcel or tract of land designed,
maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying a location or
accommodations for any manufactured home.



   MASSAGE. The practice of rubbing, stroking, kneading or rolling the
body with the hands or any instrument for the exclusive purpose of
relaxation, physical fitness or beautification as defined in Ch. 119 of this
code.



   MONOPOLE. A wireless communication facility which consists of a single
unit without supporting members structure, erected on the ground to support
wireless communication antennas and connecting appurtenances.



   MOTEL. A series of sleeping or living units, for the lodging of
transient guests, offered to the public for compensation, and with convenient
access to off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of the guests or
occupants.



   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure
lawfully existing at the time of the approval of this chapter, or any
amendment to it rendering that building or structure non-conforming, which:



      (1)   Does not comply with all of the regulations of this
chapter, or any amendment hereto, governing bulk, height and yard
requirements for the zoning district in which that building or structure is
located; or



      (2)   Is designed or intended for a nonconforming use.



   NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. An unimproved lot which was legally
recorded on or before the effective date of this chapter which does not
comply with the lot size requirements for any permitted use in the district
in which it is located. The lot is considered buildable only as stipulated in
§ 154.156 of this chapter.



   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at
the time of the approval of this chapter, or any amendment to it rendering
that use non-conforming, which does not comply with all of the regulations of
this chapter, or any amendment hereto, governing use for the zoning districts
in which that use is located.



   NURSING HOME. An establishment which provides full-time convalescent or
chronic care, or both, for three or more individuals who are not related by
blood or marriage to the operator and who, by reason of advanced age, chronic
illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves. No care for the
acutely ill, or surgical or obstetrical services, shall be provided in this
type of establishment; a HOSPITAL shall be construed to be included in this
definition.



   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across
or projecting into any channel, watercourse or regulatory flood plain which
may impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in
itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water.



   ODOROUS MATTER. Any material that produces an olfactory response among
human beings.



   OFFICE-SHOWROOM BUILDING. A building in which at least 20% of the floor
space is devoted to office activities, the remainder being used for either
warehousing, display, light manufacturing or research and testing.
Floor-to-ceiling joist heights in the warehouse portion would be not more
than 14 feet.



   OPEN SPACE. The portion of a land parcel not occupied by buildings,
other structures or parking areas.



   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land containing one or more unenclosed parking
spaces whose use is principal to the lot as differentiated from an accessory
use, as a residential lot.



   PARKING SPACE. A surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one motor vehicle, together with a street or alley and
permitting ingress and egress of an automobile. A minimum of 170 square feet,
excluding access drives, is required.



   PARKING STRUCTURE. A deck or building, or part thereof, used or
intended to be used for the parking and storage of motor vehicles at one or
more levels.



   PARTICULATE MATTER. Material other than water which is suspended or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid.



   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land developed as a unit under single
or unified ownership control and which generally includes two or more
principal buildings or uses but which may consist of one building containing
a combination of principal and supportive uses. Land uses not otherwise
allowed in the zoning district are prohibited with a PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
unless specific provisions are made by ordinance or resolution of the City
Council.



   POLE BUILDING. A building with a frame made of wooden or metal parts,
with metal panels covering three or more sides, and without a full foundation.



   PORTABLE RECYCLING UNIT. A mobile facility designed and used to collect
cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, plastics or other recyclable materials. It
may be moveable either under its own power or the power of separate device.



   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use
of the lot on which it is situated.



   PRINCIPAL USE. The purpose for which land or a building or structure
thereon is designed, arranged, intended or maintained, or for which it is or
may be used or occupied.



   PRIVATE CLUB OR LODGE. A building and related facilities owned or
operated by a corporation, association or group of persons for social,
educational or recreational purposes of members regularly paying dues, but
not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried
on as a business.



   PRIVATE RECEIVING AND/OR TRANSMITTING ANTENNA. Any antenna erected for
non-commercial use of the information.



   PUBLIC UTILITY. Persons, corporations or governments supplying gas,
electric, transportation, water, sewer or land line telephone services to the
general public. For the purpose of this chapter, commercial wireless
telecommunications service facilities shall not be considered PUBLIC UTILITY
uses, and are defined separately.



   QUASI-PUBLIC. Essentially public (as in services rendered) although
under private ownership or control.



   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment
of a stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an
urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossings would most typically constitute a REACH.



   RECREATION ESTABLISHMENT. A facility used by a business or
not-for-profit organization for play, amusement or relaxation, not including
the sale or consumption of alcohol.



   RECYCLE. To process (as glass or cans) in order to regain material.



   REGIONAL FLOOD, INTERMEDIATE REGIONAL FLOOD or BASE FLOOD. A flood
which is representative of large floods known to have occurred generally in
the state and reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on
an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year recurrence interval.



   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. A point not less than one foot
above the water surface profile associated with the regional flood plus any
increases in flood heights attributable to encroachments on the flood plain.



   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food is available to the general
public for consumption on the premises.



   RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT. An establishment which by design of physical
facilities or by service or packaging procedures permits or encourages the
purchase of prepared, ready-to-eat foods intended to be consumed off the
premises.



   RINGELMANN CHART. A chart described by the U.S. Bureau of Mines in its
Information Circular No. 6888, upon which are illustrated graduated shades of
gray for use in estimating the light obscuration capacity of smoke or its
equivalent.



   SALVAGE AND WRECKING YARD. An outdoor facility used by a business
engaged in the reclamation of parts or materials from machinery or buildings.



   SATELLITE ANTENNA. A device for the reception of signals from
communication satellites.



   SCHOOL; PRIMARY, SECONDARY, COLLEGE or UNIVERSITY. Any accredited
school having regular sessions with regularly employed instructors teaching
subjects which are fundamental and essential for a general academic
education, under the supervision of, and in accordance with, the applicable
statutes of the state.



   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a wall of a building
and a lot line.



   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:



      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria,
measured on a daily, weekly, monthly or yearly basis:



         (a)   Has more than 5% of its inventory, stock-in-trade
or publicly displayed merchandise in sexually-oriented materials;



         (b)   Devotes more than 200 square feet of its floor
area (not including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements or any
portion of the business not open to the public) to sexually-oriented
materials; or



         (c)   Derives more than 10% of its gross revenues from
sexually-oriented materials; or



      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a
sexually-oriented use, as defined in this section, or any other use that has
an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and



      (3)   A sexually-oriented business shall be restricted from
and prohibit access to minors by the physical separation of such items from
areas of general public access:



         (a)   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted
from general view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of
which is in clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for
the operation or shall be in catalogs under the direct control and
distribution of the operator; and



         (b)   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying
as sexually oriented shall be covered with a wrapper or other means to
prevent display of any material other than the publication title.



   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display or illustration
which is affixed to, painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a
building, structure or piece of land and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, institution, organization, idea or
business. However, a SIGN shall not include any display of official court,
public office notices or traffic signs, nor shall it include the flag,
separate emblem or insignia of a nation, political unit or school or
religious group, nor incombustible table or lettering built into the wall of
a building or other structure. A SIGN inside a building is not included
unless its face is visible only from the exterior of a building. Each display
surface of a SIGN shall be considered to be a SIGN.



   SIGN, BANNER. A temporary sign made of flexible material, displayed to
advertise an event, promotion and the like. It is not intended as permanent
business signage.



   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign whose message includes goods or services which
are not available on the premises where the sign is located.



   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or
profession conducted or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or
offered upon the premises where the sign is located or to which it is affixed.



   SIGN, DYNAMIC. A sign or portion thereof that appears to have movement
or that appears to change using any method other than a person physically
removing and replacing the sign or its components. This includes a display
that incorporates a technology or method allowing the sign face to change the
image without having to physically or mechanically replace the sign face or
its components. This also includes any rotating, revolving, moving, flashing,
blinking or animated display and any display that incorporates rotating
panels, LED lights manipulated through digital input, “digital ink” or
any other method or technology that allows the sign face to present a series
of images or displays.



   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign including any sign illuminated by
reflected or refracted light on which the artificial light is not maintained
stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when the sign is
in use. For the purpose of this chapter, any revolving illuminated sign shall
be considered a FLASHING SIGN.



   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign which is not attached to a building.



   SIGN, GROUND. A freestanding sign which is not over five feet in height
and has its longest edge abutting the ground.



   SIGN, PORTABLE/TEMPORARY. A sign designed to be moved from place to
place and not intended for permanent business signage.



   SIGN, PROJECTED. Any sign which is attached to or represented on the
surface of a building wall whose leading edge extends greater than 15 inches.



   SIGN REPLACEMENT. The removal and replacement of the frame of a sign.
Does not include merely changing the message panel or repainting the face of
the sign.



   SIGN; SANDWICH BOARD. A freestanding temporary sign, with no moving
parts or flashing lights, no larger than seven square feet total sign size
(no taller than six feet from grade); displayed outside a business, during
business hours, to advertise the business, hours of operation, an event, a
promotion, and the like (excluding real estate signage). It is not intended
as permanent business signage.



   SIGN; SURFACE AREA. The total area that will contain the sign. For
signs which are not rectangular in shape, the area shall be calculated upon
the area of the smallest polygon which completely encloses the sign. For
multi-faced signs, each display face shall be measured, except in the case of
two-sided signs that are identical on both sides. Any material or color
framing used to differentiate the sign from the background of the building or
structure shall be included in measurement of SURFACE AREA. In no case shall
the supports, uprights by which the sign is supported, be included in
determining the SURFACE AREA of the sign unless those items are an integral
part of the display. The Zoning Administrator may interpret the measurement
of the sign area in a liberal, consistent interpretation. In no case shall
temporary paper, water color, chalk and similar signs that are displayed in
windows be counted as SIGN SURFACE AREA.



   SIGN, WALL. Any sign which is attached flat against or represented on
the surface of a building wall. A WALL SIGN may have a depth of up to 15
inches.



   SMOKE. Small gas-borne particles other than water that form a visible
plume in the air.



   SOLAR STRUCTURE. A structure designed for use of passive or active
solar energy as part of its heating system.



   SPA. A structure which is not completely enclosed within a building, is
designed for therapeutic use, is not drained, cleaned or refilled for each
individual, and is equipped, but not by way of limitation, with hydrojet
circulation, hot water, cold water mineral baths or air induction bubbles, or
any combination. Industry terminology for a SPA includes, but is not limited
to, THERAPEUTIC POOL, HYDROTHERAPY POOL, WHIRLPOOL, HOT SPA and HOT TUB.



   SPOT ZONING. A colloquial term describing the geographic definition of
a zoning district in such a manner that the resulting district is very small
in relation to surrounding districts and is not compatible with surrounding
districts.



   STACKING SPACE. A portion of a driveway used for automobiles or trucks
in a queue. The length of a STACKING SPACE is defined as 18 feet.



   STORAGE UNITS. A building or group of buildings that may have
individual compartmentalized stalls or units that are used exclusively for
the storage of goods, materials or equipment on the premises.



   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there be no floor
above it, then the space between the floor and ceiling above it. A basement
designed or used for dwelling purposes for other than a janitor, maintenance
person or watchperson, or for commercial purposes other than storage, shall
be counted as one-half STORY. A cellar used for commercial purposes other
than storage shall be counted as one-half STORY. No other basement or cellar
shall be counted as a STORY. Any level or deck used exclusively for parking
purposes shall be counted as one-half STORY.



   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access
to abutting property.



   STREET WALL. The main wall nearest to and facing on a street, including
sun parlors and bays, but not including bay windows.



   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
more or less permanent location on the ground, or attached to something
having a permanent location on the ground, including manufactured houses and
trailers not meeting exemption criteria in the flood plain management
district.



   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial changes in the roof.



   SUPERVISED LIVING FACILITY. A residential structure in which non-family
occupants receive room and board and guidance in daily personal activities.



   SWIMMING POOL or POOL. A permanent or portable structure which is not
completely enclosed within a building, whether below ground level, above
ground level or partially above and partially below ground level, intended
for non-commercial use as a swimming pool, and which exceeds 24 inches in
depth capacity and has a surface area exceeding 100 square feet.



   TERRACE. A level plane or surfaced patio, directly adjacent to the
principal building on the surface of the land or on the roof of a building.



   TODDLER. All persons five years of age and younger.



   TOWER HEIGHT. The height as determined by measuring the vertical
distance from the point of contact with the ground to the highest point of
the tower, including all antennas or other attachments.



   TRUCK TERMINAL. A warehouse and distribution business specializing in
the shipment of goods or materials and which generates significant numbers of
semi-trailer trucks.



   TOWNHOUSES. A group of attached single-family dwelling units on a
common lot.



   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental or accessory to the principal use of a
lot or a building located on the same lot as the accessory use.



   USE, PERMITTED. A use which is lawfully established in a particular
zoning district or districts and which conforms with all requirements,
regulations and performance standards of that district.



   UTILITY BUILDING. A detached accessory building used by the residents
of a residential structure for storing tools and other personal property but
not for the storage of motor vehicles.



   VARIANCE. A modification or variation on the provisions of this code as
applied to a specific piece of property; except that, modification in the
allowable uses within a zoning district shall not be permitted through the
VARIANCE process.



   WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials, goods or equipment within an
enclosed building as a principal use.



   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment or materials to another
business that in turn sells to other customers.



   YARD. An open space between a building and any lot line which is open
to the sky unobstructed by any permanent or temporary uses or structures.



   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the entire front of the lot and
measured between the front line of the lot and the front line of the
building, or any projection thereof other than steps, balconies, paved
terraces, open decks or bay windows.



   YARD, OPEN. A yard in addition to front, side and rear setbacks, in
which no structure, driveway or parking space shall be located.



   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the entire rear of a lot and
measured between the rear lot line and the rear of the building, or any
projection thereof other than steps, balconies, paved terraces, porches or
bay windows. On corner lots, the REAR shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension. On double frontage lots
with equal lot edges, the REAR YARD shall be the lot edge at the rear of the
house which is opposite the lot front.



   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot
extending from the front yard to the rear yard and measured between the side
line of the lot and the side of the building, or any projection thereof other
than steps, balconies, paved terraces, open decks or bay windows.



   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the city for
which the regulations and requirements governing land use are uniform.



   ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The official designated by the City Council
to administer and enforce this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.004)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 96-167, passed
6-10-1996; Ord. 96-186, passed 12-10-1996; Ord. 98-224, passed 5-12-1998;
Ord. 98-245, passed 1-12-1999; Ord. 00-286, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 01-297,
passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 03-334, passed 4-8-2003; Ord. 05-0424, passed
2-28-2006; Ord. 07-0451, passed 1-9-2007; Ord. 07-0459, passed 3-13-2007;
Ord. 10-0661, passed 10-12-2010; Ord. 11-0666, passed 4-26-2011; Ord.
11-0668, passed 5-10-2011; Ord. 11-0671, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 12-0690,
passed 7-10-2012; Ord. 13-706, passed 4-23-2013; Ord. 13-0710, passed
7-9-2013; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016)




GENERAL REQUIREMENTS




§ 154.015  COMPLIANCE.



   Except as hereinafter provided:



   (A)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered for the
district in which it is located; and



   (B)   All applicants receiving building permits for permitted or
conditional uses to be located in the floodway or flood fringe districts
shall be required to submit certification by a registered professional
engineer or land surveyor, as appropriate, or other qualified person
designated by the governing body, that the finished fill and building floor
elevations, floodproofing or other flood protection measures were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.015)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.016  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity or
general welfare.



   (B)   Wherever the requirements of this chapter are in variance with
the requirements of this chapter or are in variance with the requirements of
any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restriction
or covenants, the most restrictive or those imposing the higher standards
shall govern.



(2004 Code, § 154.016)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.017  BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   Compliance required. No building or other structure shall
hereafter be erected or altered to exceed in height, to accommodate or house
a greater number of families, to occupy a greater percentage of lot area or
to have narrower or smaller rear yards, side yards or other open spaces than
herein required, or in any other manner be contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.



   (B)   Premises identification. Approved numbers or addresses shall
be provided for all new buildings in such a position as to be plainly visible
and legible from the street or road fronting the property. All buildings
require a minimum height of four-inch numbers.



(2004 Code, § 154.017)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.018  AREA REQUIREMENTS.



   (A)   No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking
or loading space required about or in connection with any building for the
purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard,
open space or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any
other building, except as modified hereinafter.



   (B)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.018)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.019  SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING ON LOT OF RECORD.



   In any district where single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family detached dwelling may be erected on any lot of official record
as of 1989 irrespective of its area or width; provided, the applicable yard
and other open space requirements are satisfied or modified by the City
Council as set forth in § 154.173 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.019)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.020  SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING ON LARGE LOT.



   In any residential district where a single-family or two-family
residential structure is to be developed on a large lot which could later be
resubdivided and still meet the dimensional and area requirements for another
lot of the district in which it is situated, that structure must be placed in
a manner which would permit the resubdivision. Accessory uses shall be
exempted from this requirement.



(2004 Code, § 154.020)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.021  ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON R-1 OR R-2 LOT.



   Not more than one principal building shall be located on a lot in
Residential Districts R-1 and R-2, except as provided in §§ 154.055 through
154.057 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.021)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.022  EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.



   The height limitations stipulated in this chapter shall not apply to
the following:



   (A)   Essential service structures, architectural features and the
like. Church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, water towers,
fire and hose towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys,
smoke stacks, flag poles, radio and television towers, wind energy conversion
systems, solar structures, masts and aerials and parapet walls extending not
more than four feet above the limiting height of the building;



   (B)   Places of public assembly. Places of public assembly in
churches, schools and other permitted public and semi-public buildings;
provided that, they are located on the first floor of those buildings;
provided that for each two feet by which the height of the building exceeds
the maximum height otherwise permitted in the district, its side and rear
yards shall be increased in width or depth by an additional foot over the
side and rear yards required for the highest building otherwise permitted in
the district; and, further provided that, the Planning Commission shall find
that the additional height will not be materially detrimental to surrounding
property; or



   (C)   Elevator penthouses and the like. Elevator penthouses
(elevator machinery loft), monitors and scenery lofts; provided, no linear
dimension of any structure of this type exceeds 50% of the corresponding
street lot line frontage. Fire towers, hose towers, cooling towers, grain
elevators, industrial process towers, gas holders or other structures, where
a manufacturing process requires a greater height, shall be excepted.



(2004 Code, § 154.022)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 07-0465, passed
7-10-2007)



§ 154.023  EXCEPTIONS TO YARD AND FRONTAGE LIMITATIONS.



   In any district where front yards are required and where 40% or more of
the frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting streets or
around the circumference of a cul-de-sac is developed with buildings that
have a front yard that is greater or less than the required front yard in the
district, no building shall project beyond the average yard so established.



(2004 Code, § 154.023)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.024  YARD SPACE; ENCROACHMENTS; STEEP SLOPES.



   (A)   Yard space requirement. Any building, structure or use
hereafter erected, altered or established shall comply with the yard space
requirements of the district in which it is located, except as specified
below. The required yard space for any building, structure or use shall be
contained on the same lot as the building, structure or use and the required
yard space shall fall entirely upon land in a district or districts in which
the principal use is permitted. Any required yard space shall be open from 30
inches above the ground to the sky, except as specified elsewhere in this
chapter.



   (B)   Yard space encroachments; projections into yards and
easements. Encroachments or projections into drainage and utility easements
are not permitted, with the exception that overhangs up to two feet are
allowed for planned development districts that received final approval prior
to 2007. The following projections may be permitted into the required front,
rear or exterior side yard setback; provided, there is no encroachment or
projection into the drainage and utility easements:



      (1)   Cornices, sills, eaves and other ornamental features to
a distance of not more than two feet, six inches;



      (2)   Fire escapes to a distance of not more than four feet,
six inches;



      (3)   Decks and patios, in residential districts, to a
distance of not more than one-half the distance into yards;



      (4)   Bay windows, window wells, chimneys and fireplaces to a
distance of not more than three feet; provided that, these features do not
occupy, in the aggregate, more than one-third the length of the building wall
on which they are located; and



      (5)   Retaining walls and landscaping timbers within easements
by conditional use permit.



   (C)   Yard space exception; steep slopes. In any residential
districts where the natural grade of a lot within the required front yard has
an average slope, normal to the front lot line at every point along that
line, of such a degree or percent of slope that it is not practicable to
provide a driveway with a grade of 12% or less to a private garage conforming
to the requirements of this chapter, the garage may be located within the
front yard, but not in any case closer than 12 feet to the street line.



(2004 Code, § 154.024)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 07-0452, passed
1-9-2007)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.025  ZERO LOT LINE HOUSING.



   Every development proposal which is designed or later modified so as to
place the principal structure abutting a side property line in order to have
only one open side yard or less must file with the Zoning Administrator a
signed copy of the recorded covenant with filing information assuring access
through the adjacent yard for purposes of repairs and general maintenance
and/or common wall construction. This covenant is mandatory and the issuance
of any certificate of occupancy shall be contingent on the filing. In some
cases, the side yard could be the rear yard.



(2004 Code, § 154.025)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.026  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.



   (A)   No accessory buildings shall be erected or located within any
required side yard setback, except as provided in §§ 154.056 and 154.057 of
this chapter, for R-1 and R-2 Districts.



   (B)   Utility buildings in residential districts shall be smaller
than 200 square feet and shall be six feet or more from all lot lines of
adjoining lots, and shall not be located within a utility easement.



   (C)   No accessory building or garage per single-family home shall
occupy more than 25% of a rear yard. All new homes shall either have an
attached or detached garage of at least 400 square feet. Garages less than
400 square feet, but larger than 240 square feet, are allowed by conditional
use permit. The size of detached (accessory) garages are regulated per the
below table:



 


Lot Size

 
Maximum Detached (Accessory) Garage Size


.15 to .29 acres
 
1,000 square feet


.30 to .49 acres
 
1,250 square feet


.50 to 1.0 acres
 
1,500 square feet


1.0 to 2.0 acres
 
1,750 square feet


2.0 acres or more
 
2,000 square feet



   * Note: No accessory structure or detached garage shall occupy more
than 25% of a rear yard.



   (D)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of more than
one accessory detached private garage structure for each dwelling.



   (E)   No accessory building or use shall be constructed or developed
on a lot prior to the time of construction of the principal building to which
it is accessory, except by conditional use permit.



   (F)   Accessory buildings in all districts shall be located to the
rear of the principal building.



   (G)   No accessory building in a commercial or industry district
shall exceed the height of the principal building, except by conditional use
permit.



   (H)   Utility sheds in residential districts which have floor areas
greater than 200 square feet shall have a floating concrete slab. Only one
utility shed per home is permitted.



   (I)   Pole buildings are not allowed for detached garages or
accessory buildings in residential zoned areas unless the lot is at least one
acre in size.



   (J)   Unattached garages require direct access by public way or in
cases of interior lots, a side yard drive setback dimension no less than ten
feet between the property line and the principal structure. Direct access to
the public right-of-way is not permitted through the rear or side yard of
double frontage lots located on any collectors or arterial roadways, except
for properties platted prior to 1988.



   (K)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9,
the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and
regulates temporary family health care dwellings.



(2004 Code, § 154.026)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 07-0459, passed
3-13-2007; Ord. 13-0710, passed 7-9-2013; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016; Ord.
16-0763, passed 8-23-2016)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.027  WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.



   (A)   Purpose. The section is established to regulate the
installation of wind energy conversion systems (WECS) within the city, not
otherwise subject to siting and oversight by the state.



   (B)   Interpretation, conflict and separability.



      (1)   Interpretation. In interpreting these regulations and
their application, the provisions of these regulations shall be held to be
the minimum requirements for the protection of public health, safety and
general welfare. These regulations shall be constructed to broadly promote
the purposes for which they are adopted.



      (2)   Conflict. These regulations are not intended to
interfere with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation,
statute or other provision of law, except as provided in these regulations.
If any provision of these regulations that impose restrictions different from
any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or provision of law, the
provision that is more restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.



      (3)   Separability. If any part or provision of these
regulations or the application of these regulations to any developer or
circumstances is found invalid by any competent jurisdiction, the judgment
shall be confined in its operation to the part, provision or application
directly involved in the controversy in which the judgment shall be rendered
and shall not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these
regulations or the application of them to other developers or circumstances.



   (C)   Enforcement, violations, remedies and penalties. Enforcement
of this section shall be done in accordance with process and procedures
established in this chapter.



   (D)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      AGGREGATED PROJECT. Aggregated projects are those which are
developed and operated in a coordinated fashion, but which have multiple
entities separately owning one or more of the individual WECS within the
larger project. Associated infrastructure such as power lines and
transformers that service the facility may be owned by a separate entity, but
are also included as part of the AGGREGATED PROJECT.



      COMMERCIAL WECS. A WECS of equal to or greater than 100 kW in
total name plate generating capacity.



      FALL ZONE. The area, defined as the furthest distance from the
tower base, in which a guyed tower will collapse in the event of a structural
failure. This area is less than the total height of the structure.



      FEEDER LINE. Any power line that carries electrical power from
one or more wind turbines or individual transformers associated with
individual wind turbines to the point of interconnection with the electric
power grid, in the case of interconnection with the high voltage transmission
systems, the point of interconnection shall be the substation serving the
WECS.



      METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. For the purposes of this section, those
towers which are erected primarily to measure wind speed and directions plus
other data relevant to siting WECS. METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS do not include
towers and equipment used by airports, the State Department of Transportation
or other similar applications to monitor weather conditions.



      NON-COMMERCIAL WECS. A WECS of less than 100 kW in total name
plate generating capacity.



      PROPERTY LINE. The boundary line of the area over which the
entity applying for a WECS permit has legal control for the purposes of
installation of a WECS. This control may be attained through fee title
ownership, easement or other appropriate contractual relationship between the
project developer and landowner.



      PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS. Land owned in fee title by state or
federal agencies and managed specifically for grassland conservation
purposes, including, but not limited to, state wildlife management areas,
state parks, state scientific and natural areas, federal wildlife refuges and
waterfowl production areas. PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS will also include lands
owned in fee title by non-profit conservation organizations. PUBLIC
CONSERVATION LANDS do not include private lands upon which conservation
easements have been sold to public agencies or non-profit conservation
organizations.



      ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the
moving rotor blades.



      SUBSTATIONS. Any electrical facility designed to convert
electricity produced by wind turbines to a voltage greater than 35,000 volts
for interconnection with high voltage transmission lines shall be located
outside of the road right-of-way.



      TOTAL HEIGHT. The highest point, above ground level, reached by a
rotor tip or any other part of the WECS.



      TOWER. Towers include vertical structures that support the
electrical generator, rotor blades or meteorological equipment.



      TOWER HEIGHT. The total height of the WECS exclusive of the rotor
blades.



      TRANSMISSION LINE. Those electrical power lines that carry
voltages of at least 69,000 volts (69 KV) and are primarily used to carry
electric energy over medium to long distances rather than directly
interconnecting and supplying electric energy to retail customers.



      WECS (WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM). An electrical generating
facility comprised of one or more wind turbines and accessory facilities,
including, but not limited to, power lines, transformers, substations and
meteorological towers, that operate by converting the kinetic energy of wind
into electrical energy. The energy may be used on-site or distributed into
the electrical grid.



      WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine is any piece of electrical
generating equipment that converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into
electrical energy through the use of airfoils or similar devices to capture
the wind.



   (E)   Application procedures. Application for WECS shall be reviewed
and processed in accordance with the conditional use permit procedures
established in § 154.175 of this chapter, as identified in the district
regulations table. The following information is required in addition to the
information required for a site plan or conditional use permit application.



      (1)   The application for all WECS shall include the following
information:



         (a)   The names of project applicant;



         (b)   The name of the project owner;



         (c)   The legal description and address of the project;



         (d)   A description of the project including number,
type, name plate generating capacity, tower height, rotor diameter and total
height of all wind turbines and means of interconnecting with the electrical
grid;



         (e)   Property survey, including the location of
property lines, wind turbines, electrical wires, interconnection points with
the electrical grid and all related accessory structures. The site layout
shall include distances and be drawn to scale;



         (f)   Evidence that the applicant can obtain and
maintain adequate liability insurance for the WECS and subject property;



         (g)   Engineer’s certification; and



         (h)   Documentation of land ownership or legal control
of the property.



      (2)   The application for commercial WECS shall also include:



         (a)   The latitude and longitude of individual wind
turbines. A USGS topographical map, or map with similar data, of the project
site including boundaries of the project area, surrounding property within
one-quarter mile, and any other WECS within ten rotor diameters of the
proposed project;



         (b)   Location of wetlands, scenic, and natural areas
(including bluffs) within one mile of the proposed WECS;



         (c)   FAA permit application;



         (d)   Location of all known communications towers within
two miles of the proposed project. Provide proof that the WECS will not
interfere with emergency or other microwave transmission;



         (e)   A noise study, prepared by a qualified
professional, that demonstrate that except for intermittent episodes, the
WECS shall not emit noise in excess of the limits established in Minn. Rules
Ch. 7030 governing noise and § 92.018 of this code of ordinances, as
applicable;



         (f)   A shadow flicker model that demonstrates that
shadow flicker shall not fall on, or in, any existing residential structure.
Shadow flicker expected to fall on a roadway or a portion of a residentially
zoned property may be acceptable if the flicker does not exceed 30 hours per
year; and the flicker will fall more than 100 feet from an existing
residence; or the traffic volumes are less than 500 vehicles (ADT). The
shadow flicker model shall:



            1.   Map and describe with a 1,000-foot radius of
the proposed dispersed wind energy system the topography, existing residences
and location of their windows, location of other structures, wind speeds and
directions, existing vegetation and roadways. The model shall represent the
most probable scenarios of wind constrancy, sunshine constancy and wind
directions and speed;



            2.   Calculate the locations of shadow flicker
caused by the proposed project and the expected durations of the flicker at
these locations, calculate the total number of hours per year of flicker at
all locations; and



            3.   Identify problem areas where shadow flicker
will interfere with existing or future residences and roadways and describe
proposed mitigation measures, including, but not limited to, a change in
siting of the WECS, a change in the operation of the WECS, or grading or
landscaping mitigation measures.



         (g)   Decommissioning plan; and



         (h)   Description of potential impacts on nearby WECS
and wind resources on adjacent properties.



      (3)   Application procedures for aggregated projects.



         (a)   Aggregated projects may jointly submit a single
application and be reviewed under joint proceedings, including notices,
hearings, reviews and as appropriate, approvals. Permits will be issued and
recorded separately.



         (b)   All aggregated projects over the five MW threshold
currently outlined in state statute are subject to state regulation.



   (F)   District regulations. WECS will be conditionally permitted or
not permitted based on the generating capacity and land use district as
established in the table below.



 

Zoning District
 

Non-Commercial WECS

 

Commercial WECS

 

Meteorlogical Tower





C-1, C-2, C-3, C-5
 

Not permitted      

 

Not permitted

 

Not permitted



C-4
 

Conditionally permitted

 

Conditionally permitted

 

Conditionally permitted



I/C
 

Conditionally permitted

 

Not permitted

 

Conditionally permitted



I-1 and I-2
 

Conditionally permitted

 

Conditionally permitted

 

Conditionally permitted



GT
 

Conditionally permitted

 

Not permitted

 

Conditionally permitted



R-1, R-2
 

Conditionally permitted

 

Not permitted

 

Conditionally permitted



R-3, R-4, R-5
 

Not permitted

 

Not permitted

 

Not permitted





 



   (G)   Setbacks. All towers shall adhere to the setbacks established
in the following table.



 


 

Non-Commercial WECS

 

Commercial WECS

 

Meteorlogical Tower



Property lines
 

1.1 times the total height

 

1.1 times the total height

 

1.1 times the total height



Neighboring structures
 

Setback to property line of 1.1 times the total height required

 

750 feet

 

Guyed towers: The fall zone, as certified by a professional engineer



p+ 10 feet



Non-guyed towers: 1.1 times the total height



Road right-of-way and other right-of-ways (railroads, powers lines, etc.)
 

Guyed towers: The fall zone, as certified by a professional engineer



+ 10 feet



Non-guyed towers: 1.1 times the total height

 

1.1 times the total height

 





Other existing WECS
 

N/A

 

600 feet

 

600 feet



Wetlands, USFW

Types III, IV and V
 

N/A

 

600 feet

 

600 feet




 



   (H)   Requirements and standards.



      (1)   Safety design standards.



         (a)   Engineering certification. For all WECS, the
manufacturer’s engineer or another qualified engineer shall certify that
the turbine, foundation and tower design of the WECS is within accepted
professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.



         (b)   Clearance. Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain
at least 12 feet of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.



         (c)   Warnings. For all commercial WECS, a sign or signs
shall be posted on the tower, transformer and substation warning of high
voltage. Signs with emergency contact information shall also be posted on the
turbine or at another suitable point. Painted aviation warnings are
recommended on meteorological towers less than 200 feet.



         (d)   For all guyed towers, visible and reflective
objects, such as plastic sleeves, reflectors or tape, shall be placed on the
guy wire anchor points and along the outer and innermost guy wires up to a
height of eight feet above the ground. Visible fencing shall be installed
around anchor points of guy wires on all commercial, industrial and
institutional properties.



      (2)   Standards.



         (a)   Total height. Non-commercial WECS shall have a
total height of less than 200 feet.



         (b)   Tower configuration. All wind turbines, which are
part of a commercial WECS, shall be installed with a tubular, monopole type
tower.



         (c)   Color and finish. All wind turbines and towers
shall be white, grey or another non-obtrusive color. Blades may be black in
order to facilitate deicing. Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
Meteorological towers are exempt from this requirement.



         (d)   Lighting. Lighting, including lighting intensity
and frequency of strobe, shall adhere to but not exceed requirements
established by Federal Aviation Administration permits and regulations. Red
strobe lights are preferred for night-time illumination to reduce impacts on
migrating birds. Red pulsating incandescent lights should be avoided.



         (e)   Other signage. All signage on site shall comply
with city sign ordinances. The manufacturer’s or owner’s company name
and/or logo may be placed upon the nacelle, compartment containing the
electrical generator, of the WECS.



         (f)   Feeder lines. All communications and feeder lines,
equal to or less than 34.5 kV in capacity, installed as part of a WECS shall
be buried where reasonably feasible. Feeder lines installed as part of a WECS
shall not be considered an essential service. This standard applies to all
feeder lines subject to city authority.



         (g)   Shadow flicker. Shadow flicker may not exceed 30
hours per year and shall not fall more than 100 feet from an existing
residential property.



         (h)   Waste disposal. Solid and hazardous wastes,
including, but not limited to, crates, packaging materials, damaged or worn
parts, as well as used oils and lubricants, shall be removed from the site
promptly and disposed of in accordance with all applicable local, state and
federal regulations.



         (i)   Discontinuation and decommissioning. A WECS shall
be considered a discontinued use after one year without energy production,
unless a plan is developed and submitted to the Zoning Administrator
outlining the steps and schedule for returning the WECS to service. All
commercial WECS and accessory facilities, including the foundation, shall be
completely removed within a year of the discontinuation of use for commercial
WECS projects. For non-commercial projects, the footings for the WECS may be
left in place provided the slab remains in place.



         (j)   Decommissioning plan.



            1.   Each commercial WECS shall have a
decommissioning plan outlining the anticipated means and cost of removing
WECS at the end of their serviceable life or upon becoming a discontinued use.



            2.   The cost estimates shall be made by a
competent party such as a professional engineer, a contractor capable of
decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or experience with
decommissioning.



            3.   The plan shall also identify the financial
resources that will be available to pay for the decommissioning and removal
of the WECS and accessory facilities.



         (k)   Orderly development. Upon issuance of a
conditional use permit, all commercial WECS shall notify the energy facility
permitting staff of Department of Commerce of the project location and
details on the form specified by the Department.



         (l)   Noise. All WECS shall comply with Minn. Rules Ch.
7030 governing noise and § 92.018 of this code of ordinances.



         (m)   Complaint resolution. The owner/operator of the
WECS shall develop a process to resolve complaints from nearby residents. The
process shall use an independent mediator or arbitrator and include a time
frame for acting on a complaint. The applicant shall make every reasonable
effort to resolve any complaint.



         (n)   Electrical codes and standards. All WECS and
accessory equipment and facilities shall comply with the National Electrical
Code and other applicable standards.



         (o)   Federal Aviation Administration. All WECS shall
comply with FAA standards and permits.



         (p)   Uniform Building Code. All WECS shall comply with
the Uniform Building Code adopted by the state.



         (q)   Interference. The applicant shall minimize or
mitigate interference with electromagnetic communications, such as radio,
telephone, microwaves or television signals, caused by any WECS. The
applicant shall notify all communication tower operators within two miles of
the proposed WECS location upon application to the city for permits. No WECS
shall be constructed so as to interfere with any microwave transmissions.



         (r)   Right of entrance. By the acceptance of the
conditional use permit, the owner/operator grants permission to the city to
enter the property to remove the WECS pursuant to the terms of the
conditional use permit and to assure compliance with other conditions set
forth in the permit.



      (3)   Avoidance and mitigation of damages to infrastructure
and utilities.



         (a)   Roads. Applicants shall:



            1.   Identify all county, city or township roads
to be used for the purpose of transporting commercial WECS, substation parts,
concrete and/or equipment for construction, operation or maintenance of the
commercial WECS and obtain applicable weight and size permits from the
impacted road authority(ies) prior to construction; and



            2.   Be responsible for restoring or paying
damages as agreed to by the applicable road authority(ies) sufficient to
restore the road(s) and bridges to preconstruction conditions.



         (b)   Drainage system. The applicant shall be
responsible for immediate repair of damage to public drainage systems
stemming from construction, operation or maintenance of the WECS.



         (c)   Responsibility. The owner of the WECS is
responsible for any damage to any below grade public or private utilities,
due to the installation, operation, decommissioning or action otherwise
resulting for any WECS.



(2004 Code, § 154.027)  (Ord. 07-0463, passed 6-12-2007)  Penalty, see §
154.999




ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS




§ 154.040  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; OFFICIAL ZONING MAP ADOPTED.



   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the city is hereby divided
into districts, as shown on the official zoning map, which, together with all
explanatory matter thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be
part of this chapter.



   (B)   The districts shall be known as:



      (1)   R-1, Low Density Residential District;



      (2)   R-2, Medium Density Residential District;



      (3)   R-3, Medium-High Density Residential District;



      (4)   R-4, High Density Residential District;



      (5)   R-5, Manufactured Home Park District;



      (6)   C-1, Neighborhood Convenience Commercial District;



      (7)   C-2, Automotive Service Commercial District;



      (8)   C-3, Central Commercial District;



      (9)   C-4, Fringe Commercial District;



      (10)   I-1, Light Industrial Park District;



      (11)   I-2, Heavy Industrial Park District;



      (12)   I/C, Industrial/Commercial District;



      (13)   BP, Business Park District;



      (14)   PD, Planned Development District;



      (15)   FW, Floodway District; and



      (16)   FF, Flood Fringe District.



   (C)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature
of the Mayor, attested to by the City Administrator, and shall bear the seal
of the city under the following words: “This is to certify that this is the
official zoning map referred to in § 154.040 of the code of ordinances of
the City of Hutchinson”, together with the date of adoption of this
chapter. The Zoning Ordinance and official zoning map shall be kept on file
in the office of the Zoning Administrator.



   (D)   Any unauthorized change of the official zoning map of whatever
kind by person or persons shall be considered a violation of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.040)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.041  ANNEXED OR VACATED TERRITORY; DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION.



   (A)   Annexed territory. All territories which may hereafter be
annexed to the city shall be considered as being in the R-1 Low Density
Residential District, until an amendment to this chapter shall place annexed
land in a different zoning district. The Planning Commission shall review the
zoning classification of any annexed land and shall report thereon to the
City Council giving its recommendations as to the proper classification.



   (B)   Vacated streets and ways. Whenever any street, alley or other
public way is vacated by official action of the City Council, the zoning
district adjoining each side of that street, alley or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of the vacation and all area included in
the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate
regulations of the extended districts.



(2004 Code, § 154.041)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.042  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES; INTERPRETATION.



   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts, as shown on
the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.



   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of right-of-way lines of streets, highways or alleys shall be
construed to follow those centerlines.



   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following those lot lines.



   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits
shall be construed as following the city limits.



   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be
construed to be midway between the main tracks.



   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following rivers and streams should be
construed to follow the approximate centerline of that river or stream, and
should be construed as moving with the actual centerline.



   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of,
features indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.



   (G)   Where the street or property layout existing on the ground is
at variance with that shown on the official zoning map, or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the City
Council shall interpret the district boundaries in accordance with §§
154.170 through 154.177 of this chapter.



   (H)   Where there is question as to the location of the floodway or
flood fringe boundary, the determination will be based upon the 100-year
flood profile and other technical information referenced in §§ 154.085
through 154.098 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.042)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)




DISTRICT REGULATIONS; USE REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS




§ 154.055  STRUCTURES IN R-1, R-2, R-3 AND R-4 DISTRICTS.



   For all principal structures permitted in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4
Districts, the following shall apply.



   (A)   The minimum width of the main portion of all principal
dwellings shall be not less than 24 feet, as measured across the narrowest
portion. Width measurement shall not take into account overhang or other
projections.



   (B)   The structure shall have at least 720 square feet of habitable
interior room excluding garage and basement.



   (C)   (1)   All principal dwellings and principal structures
shall be placed on a permanent continuous perimeter foundation in compliance
with the Uniform Building Code as adopted by the city and insulated in
accordance with state energy codes.



      (2)   Manufactured homes must provide the manufacturer’s
approved foundation drawings. Homes manufactured after 11-29-1989, are not
permitted to remove the frames unless approved by the State Manufactured
Housing Division.



   (D)   The structure shall have a roof of gable or hip design and be
covered with a city approved roofing material.



   (E)   Manufactured homes shall be constructed after 6-15-1976, and
bear the HUD certification seal.



   (F)   Tongues on all manufactured homes shall be removed. Written
approval to remove the frame and tongue from the manufacturer is required.



   (G)   Data plate and other information for the following is required
for manufactured homes:



      (1)   Thirty-pound roof load design;



      (2)   Zone 2 heating design;



      (3)   Adequate furnace and water heater design to include the
substructure. Option: separate heating supply for substructure;



      (4)   Approved tap-in locations for substructure water service;



      (5)   Three-inch vent through roof location for substructure
per State Health Department;



      (6)   Electric interlocked smoke detector schematic; and



      (7)   Manufacturer’s design drawings for stairway location.



   (H)   (1)   The following alterations of manufactured homes
require manufacturer’s approval and State Manufactured Housing Division
approval:



         (a)   Relocation of furnace or water heater; and



         (b)   Alteration of any structural components, including
roof, walls and floor system, attaching garages and the like.



      (2)   A written statement from the applicant clarifying the
above is required.



(2004 Code, § 154.055)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.056  R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 Residential District is intended to provide
residential areas for development of single-family homes and complementary
uses on larger parcels of land.



   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses are permitted, as
regulated herein, without special application requirements or conditions
attached:



      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings. All new home
construction in residential districts shall have an attached or detached
garage with a minimum of 400 square feet. Garages less than 400 square feet,
but larger than 240 square feet, are allowed by conditional use permit.
Garages less than 240 square feet are not allowed;



      (2)   Parks and playgrounds;



      (3)   Licensed family day care as permitted by state law; and



      (4)   State licensed residential facilities serving six or
fewer persons.



   (C)   Conditional uses.



      (1)   Single-family houses not served by public sanitary sewer;



      (2)   Existing two-family homes (constructed and utilized as a
two-family home prior to 1987 could become a legal conforming use through the
conditional use process);



      (3)   Golf courses and related facilities;



      (4)   Churches and houses of worship and related facilities;



      (5)   Schools;



      (6)   Move structures larger than 200 square feet;



      (7)   Seasonal on-site sales (i.e., Christmas trees).
Conditional use permit to be renewed every three years; and



      (8)   All licensed day care facilities which are not permitted
principal uses under state law.



   (D)   Special provisions district.



      (1)   Home occupations according to the following conditions
(as defined in § 154.004 of this chapter).



         (a)   No unreasonable use of materials or mechanical
equipment not recognized as being part of and compatible with normal
household use shall be permitted.



         (b)   The use shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular
traffic beyond that reasonable or normal to the district in which located.



         (c)   It shall not involve the unreasonable or
inappropriate use of commercial vehicles for delivery of occupational
materials to or from the premises.



         (d)   No accessory building or space outside of the
principal building shall be exclusively used for these purposes.



         (e)   No special space within the principal building
shall be designed or arranged for this use so that it would require any major
internal or external alterations or involve construction features not
customary to dwellings (either by color, materials or construction, lighting,
sound or noise, vibration or electrical interference, and the like).



         (f)   There shall be no use of utilities or community
facilities beyond that reasonable to the use of the property for residential
purposes.



         (g)   No employees, other than occupants of the
principal use, shall be permitted.



         (h)   Home occupation shall cover no more than 25% of
livable area excluding unfinished area.



      (2)   Home occupations shall not in any event be deemed to
include:



         (a)   Barber shops or beauty shops;



         (b)   Funeral homes;



         (c)   Restaurants;



         (d)   Stable, kennel, animal grooming or veterinary
hospitals; or



         (e)   Nursery schools or boarding homes for children.



      (3)   Replacement of existing non-conforming accessory
buildings and driveways may be conditionally permitted; provided:



         (a)   The applicant provides the city with a rear and
side yard utility and drainage easement as required by the city;



         (b)   The garage is 1,000 square feet or less and is not
closer than three feet, zero inches, from any interior property line, in
which case the overhangs must be less than one foot from building exterior.
There shall be no recorded easement on the property in the setback area;



         (c)   A land survey, signed and designed by a registered
land surveyor, is provided and approved representing property lines, easement
locations and drainage and a site plan with the proposed building dimensions,
finished floor elevations and setbacks from property lines;



         (d)   A waiver from utilities, telephone company and
cable franchise; and



         (e)   Applicant shall provide a six-foot easement on
opposite side and rear of property prior to issuance of conditional use
permit. The city, at its sole option, may waive the six-foot rear yard
setback requirement.



      (4)   Any structure, including accessory structures, for which
a moving permit is requested except any building not exceeding ten feet in
width or 12 feet in length and not being over ten feet in height, which are
exempt from moving permits but require a building permit.



   (E)   Accessory uses.



      (1)   Detached garages as referenced in § 154.026;



      (2)   Utility sheds not exceeding 200 square feet;



      (3)   Gazebo or summer lawn-house; yard recreational equipment;



      (4)   Signs, as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144 of
this chapter; and



      (5)   Swimming pools or game courts designed for private use.



   (F)   Dimensional regulations.



      (1)   Required lot area, lot coverage and dimensions.



 

R-1 Use
 

Minimum Lot Area

 

Minimum Lot Width

 

Minimum Lot Depth



Single-family residence connected to public sanitary sewer

Maximum lot coverage 50% (A survey will be required if calculations cannot be
verified)
 

10,400 square feet

 

80 feet; for corner lot, 110 feet at building line

 

130 feet




 



      (2)   Setbacks, yards and heights.



         (a)   Structures.



 

R-1 Use
 

Front Setback

 

Inter. Side

 

Corner Side

 

Rear Yard

 

Building Height



Accessory structures, including detached garages*
 

30 feet

 

6 feet

 

30 feet

 

6 feet; 25 feet on double frontage lots

 

16 feet



Single-family house
 

30 feet

 

8 feet

 

30 feet

 

30 feet; 15 feet for corner lots

 

35 feet



NOTES TO TABLE:

*  Reference § 154.026



 



         (b)   Driveways. All residential districts shall require
new driveways to be set back five feet from the side and rear property lines.
If the driveway is being replaced, repaved or reconstructed and the driveway
is located less than five feet, but three feet or more, from the property
line, the driveway permit may be issued with a variance. The apron and curb
cut shall be hard surfaced.



         (c)   Front street setback. The above listed setback and
yard requirements are subject to the following additional requirement: when
more than 40% of the frontage of the side of a street between intersections
is occupied by structures having setbacks from street rights-of-way of
greater or lesser amounts than hereinafter required, the average setback of
all existing buildings between the intersections shall be maintained by all
new or relocated structures. In the event a building is to be built where
there is such an established average setback different from that required
hereinafter and there are existing buildings on one side only, the front
setback of the new building shall match that of the next adjoining building.
In case the building is to be built where there is such an established
average setback and there are existing buildings on both sides of the new
building, the front setback shall match that which would be established by
connecting a straight line between the forward most portion of the first
adjacent building on each side.



(2004 Code, § 154.056)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 97-216, passed
1-13-1998; Ord. 01-298, passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 04-379, passed 6-8-2004; Ord.
05-0424, passed 2-28-2006; Ord. 07-0459, passed 3-13-2007; Ord. 13-0710,
passed 7-9-2013; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.057  R-2, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 Medium Density Residential District allows
single-family homes and complementary uses on land parcels that are smaller
than those required in the R-1 District. Two-family buildings are also
allowed.



   (B)   Permitted uses.



      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings. All new home
construction in residential districts shall have an attached or detached
garage with a minimum of 400 square feet. Single-family dwellings without
garages or with garages less than 400 square feet are conditionally
permitted. A conditional use permit is required;



      (2)   Two-family attached dwellings, duplexes, double
bungalows. All new home construction in residential districts shall have an
attached or detached garage with a minimum of 400 square feet. Garages less
than 400 square feet, but larger than 240 square feet, are allowed by
conditional use permit. Garages less than 240 square feet are not allowed;



      (3)   Parks and playgrounds;



      (4)   Licensed family day care as permitted by state law; and



      (5)   State licensed residential facilities serving six or
fewer persons.



   (C)   Conditional uses.



      (1)   All conditional uses of the R-1 District;



      (2)   Replacement of existing non-conforming accessory
buildings and driveways may be conditionally permitted; provided:



         (a)   The applicant provides the city with a rear and
side yard utility and drainage easement as required by the city;



         (b)   The garage is 1,000 square feet or less and is not
closer than three feet, zero inches, from any interior property line, in
which case the overhangs must be less than one foot from building exterior.
There shall be no recorded easement on the property in the setback area;



         (c)   A land survey, signed and designed by a registered
land surveyor, is provided and approved representing property lines, easement
locations and drainage and a site plan with the proposed building dimensions,
finished floor elevations and setbacks from property lines;



         (d)   A waiver from utilities, telephone company and
cable franchise; and



         (e)   The applicant shall provide a six-foot easement on
opposite side and rear of property prior to issuance of conditional use
permit. The city, at its sole option, may waive the six-foot rear yard
setback requirement.



      (3)   Licensed day care centers; licensed nursing homes;



      (4)   Private clubs, lodges and fraternal organizations;



      (5)   Public or quasi-public accredited educational
institutions;



      (6)   Mortuaries or funeral homes; cemeteries or memorial
gardens;



      (7)   Transportable or experimental single-family detached
housing;



      (8)   Licensed boarding houses for the elderly; and



      (9)   Bed and breakfasts, subject to conditions of § 154.110
of this chapter;



      (10)   All licensed day care facilities which are not
permitted principal uses under state law;



      (11)   By reservation special events space in owner occupied
homes, subject to the following requirements:



         (a)   The property must be located within 500 feet of
the C-3 (Central Commercial Zoning District);



         (b)   The residential character of the structure must be
preserved;



         (c)   Food and beverages shall only be served or
provided to event guests. The establishment shall comply with applicable
health codes; and



         (d)   The specifics of the use shall be included in the
conditional use permit, including the details of the proposed use, the
maximum number of attendees, hours of events and parking accommodations.



   (D)   Special provision district. As in R-1 District.



   (E)   Accessory uses. All accessory uses of the R-1 District.



   (F)   Dimensional regulations.



      (1)   Required lot area, lot coverage and dimensions.



 

R-2 Use
 

Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit

 

Minimum Lot Width

 

Minimum Lot Depth



Single-family residence connected to public sanitary sewer

Maximum lot coverage 50% (A survey will be required if calculations cannot be
verified)
 

8,400 square feet

 

70 feet; for corner lot, 90 feet at building line

 

120 feet



Two-family dwelling

Maximum lot coverage 50% (A survey will be required if calculations cannot be
verified)
 

5,000 square feet

 

80 feet

 

120 feet




 



      (2)   Setbacks, yards and heights.



 

R-2 Use
 

Front Setback

 

Inter. Side

 

Corner Side

 

Rear Yard

 

Building Height



Accessory structures, including detached garages*
 

25 feet

 

6 feet

 

25 feet

 

6 feet; 25 feet on double frontage lots

 

16 feet



Single-family house or two-family dwelling
 

25 feet

 

8 feet; 6 feet platted prior to 1988

 

25 feet

 

25 feet; 15 feet for corner lot

 

35 feet



NOTES TO TABLE:

*  Reference § 154.026



 



      (3)   Driveways. All residential districts shall require new
driveways to be set back five feet from the side and rear property lines. If
the driveway is being replaced, repaved or reconstructed and the driveway is
located less than five feet, but three feet or more, from the property line,
the driveway permit may be issued with a variance. The apron and curb cut
shall be hard surfaced.



   (G)   Common wall dwellings. Notwithstanding other provisions of §
154.042 of this chapter, one developer may construct two single-family
dwellings with a common wall and boundary line for which there may be no
building setback from the common boundary; provided:



      (1)   Each lot shall meet all other setback requirements for a
two-family dwelling; and



      (2)   Separate services shall be furnished and provided to
each dwelling for sanitary sewer and water.



(2004 Code, § 154.057)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 97-195, passed
5-13-1997; Ord. 01-298, passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 05-0424, passed 2-28-2006;
Ord. 07-0459, passed 3-13-2007; Ord. 08-0496, passed 3-11-2008; Ord. 13-0710,
passed 7-9-2013)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.058  R-3, MEDIUM-HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The R-3 Medium-High Density Residential District is
intended to provide areas offering a broad development range in housing
units, yet retain the environment and character of less intensive residence
areas through carefully established bulk and lot area requirements.



   (B)   Permitted uses.



      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings. All new home
construction in residential districts shall have an attached or detached
garage with a minimum of 400 square feet. Garages less than 400 square feet,
but larger than 240 square feet, are allowed by conditional use permit.
Garages less than 240 square feet are not allowed;



      (2)   Two-family attached dwellings, duplexes, double
bungalow. All new home construction in residential districts shall have an
attached or detached garage with a minimum of 400 square feet. Single-family
dwellings without garages or with garages less than 400 square feet are
conditionally permitted. A conditional use permit is required;



      (3)   Parks and playgrounds;



      (4)   Family day care as permitted by state law; and



      (5)   Class B supervised living facilities serving six or
fewer persons.



   (C)   Conditional uses.



      (1)   The conditional uses and special district provisions
allowed in the R-2 District;



      (2)   Three- to eight-unit buildings;



      (3)   The following are permitted only subject to the issuance
of a conditional use permit:



         (a)   Neighborhood medical and dental clinics and
offices, subject to maximum gross floor area of 5,000 square feet;



         (b)   Business and professional offices, subject to a
maximum gross floor area of 5,000 square feet, and subject further to the
special district provisions;



         (c)   Uses listed as conditional permitted uses in the
R-2 District, as regulated therein;



         (d)   A state licensed residential facility serving from
seven through 16 persons;



         (e)   Group homes and crisis shelters up to 5,000 square
feet; and



         (f)   Licensed day care facilities which are not
permitted principal uses under state law.



      (4)   Conditions for residential facilities, group homes,
crisis shelters and licensed day care facilities shall not be imposed which
are more restrictive than those imposed on conditional uses or other
multi-family residential property in the same district, unless the additional
conditions are necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of
the residential facility; and



      (5)   The requirements of § 154.115 of this chapter shall
apply to the conditional uses described in this section.



   (D)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses as listed in the R-1
Residential District.



   (E)   Dimensional regulations.



      (1)   Minimum lot area, lot coverage and dimensions.



         (a)   Requirements.



 

R-3 Use
 

Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit

 

Minimum Lot Width

 

Minimum Lot Depth



Single-family residence

Maximum lot coverage 50% (A survey will be required if calculations cannot be
verified)
 

7,200 square feet

 

60 feet; corner, 80 feet

 

120 feet



Two-family residence

Maximum lot coverage 50% (A survey will be required if calculations cannot be
verified)
 

5,000 square feet

 

80 feet

 

120 feet



Three- to eight-family building
 

4,200 square feet*

 

None

 

None



NOTES TO TABLE:

* Does not count area set aside for surface water ponding below the ordinary
high water mark or wetland protection areas.



 



         (b)   Adjustments. The minimum lot area requirements
listed above may be adjusted as follows for eight-unit multiple-family
buildings.



            1.   For each garage (parking unit) within or
under an apartment building, subtract 400 square feet from the total minimum
lot area.



            2.   For each private dwelling unit entrance,
subtract 400 square feet from the total minimum lot area.



      (2)   (a)   Setbacks and heights.



 

R-3 Use
 

Front Setback

 

Corner Side

 

Interior Side

 

Rear

 

Height



Accessory buildings**
 

30 feet

 

25 feet

 

6 feet

 

6 feet; 25 feet on double frontage lots

 

16 feet



Single-family
 

25 feet

 

25 feet

 

8 feet

 

25 feet

 

35 feet



Two-family
 

25 feet

 

25 feet

 

10 feet

 

25 feet

 

35 feet



Three- to eight-family
 

30 feet

 

25 feet

 

20 feet*

 

40 feet

 

35 feet



NOTES TO TABLE:

*  Add 6 inches for each foot the average height of the building exceeds 20
feet.

**  Reference § 154.026



 



         (b)   Distance between buildings. The minimum distance
between townhouse or four- to eight-family buildings when the exterior walls
are parallel shall be equal to the height of the exterior wall or 15 feet,
whichever is greater. Townhouses or four- to eight-family buildings shall be
no closer to one another at any point than 15 feet.



   (F)   Open space. A minimum of 20% of the land area of a residential
development shall be devoted to private outdoor passive or active recreation.
This space shall be effectively separated from automobile traffic and parking
and be readily accessible. Provisions shall be made for the permanent private
maintenance of this land. The term “open space” shall not include space
devoted to streets and parking. This private outdoor recreation space shall
not be a substitute for the dedication of land and/or cash for public parks
as may be required by § 154.072 of this chapter, regarding public sites,
open spaces and bicycle and pedestrian paths.



   (G)   Parking requirements. Parking shall be provided according to
the regulations of § 154.116 and App. B of this chapter. Parking areas or
circulation drives shall be set back at least five feet from any interior lot
line.



   (H)   Common wall dwellings. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
154.056 of this chapter, one developer may construct two single-family
dwellings with a common wall and boundary line for which there may be no
building setback from the common boundary; provided:



      (1)   Each lot shall meet all other setback requirements for a
two-family dwelling; and



      (2)   Separate services shall be furnished and provided to
each dwelling for sanitary sewer and water.



   (I)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall observe the
same setback requirements established for the multiple-residence building,
except that accessory buildings located within the rear yard of the
multiple-residence building may be located within six feet of the rear of
interior side property line. The city’s Planning Commission may require
common walls for accessory buildings where  common walls will eliminate
unsightly and hazardous areas.



(2004 Code, § 154.058)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 97-195, passed 5-
-1997; Ord. 98-219, passed 3-10-1998; Ord. 05-0424, passed 2-28-2006; Ord.
07-0459, passed 3-13-2007; Ord. 13-0710, passed 7-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.059  R-4, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The R-4 High Density Residential District defines
areas for the development of medium to high density multiple-family dwelling
structures and directly related complementary uses.



   (B)   Permitted uses. None.



   (C)   Conditional uses.



      (1)   Conditional uses and special district provisions of the
R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts, except single-family houses;



      (2)   Multiple-family buildings, including apartments,
townhouses, four-, six- and eight-family buildings and other residential
structures containing three or more dwelling units;



      (3)   Apartment buildings designed and marketed exclusively
for the elderly;



      (4)   Private parks and playgrounds or tot lots;



      (5)   A state licensed residential facility serving from seven
through 16 persons;



      (6)   Group homes and crisis shelters up to 5,000 square feet;



      (7)   Licensed day care facilities which are not permitted
principal uses under state law;



      (8)   Conditions for residential facilities, group homes,
crisis shelters and licensed day care facilities shall not be imposed which
are more restrictive than those imposed on conditional uses or other
multi-family residential property in the same district, unless the additional
conditions are necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of
the residential facility; and



      (9)   The requirements of § 154.115 of this chapter shall
apply to the conditional uses described in this section.



   (D)   Accessory uses.



      (1)   Any accessory use building or structure customarily
incidental to a use permitted above, and located on the same lot therewith;
and



      (2)   Accessory uses of the R-1 District.



   (E)   Dimensional regulations.



      (1)   Minimum lot area and dimensions. In determining minimum
lot area and minimum lot dimensions, the following table in division
(E)(1)(a) below shall be used. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit may be
adjusted using the schedule of allowances, also below in division (E)(1)(b)
below.



         (a)   Requirements.



 

R-4 Use
 

Bedrooms per Unit

 

Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit

 
Minimum Lot Width
 
Minimum Lot Depth




Apartment building
 

0

 

2,500 square feet*

 

None

 

None




1

 

3,000 square feet*




2

 

3,000 square feet*




3

 

3,500 square feet*



Apartments for the elderly
 

0

 

1,000 square feet*

 

None

 

None




1

 

1,500 square feet*




2

 

2,000 square feet*



Three- to eight- family building
 

NA

 

4,000 square feet*

 

None

 

None



NOTES TO TABLE:

* Does not include areas set aside for surface water ponding below the
ordinary high water mark or wetland protection.




 



         (b)   Adjustments. The minimum lot area requirements
listed above may be adjusted as follows.



            1.   For each garage (parking unit) within or
under an apartment building, subtract 400 square feet from the total minimum
lot area.



            2.   For each private dwelling unit entrance,
subtract 400 square feet from the total minimum lot area.



      (2)   (a)   Setbacks and heights.



 

R-4 Use
 

Front Setback

 

Corner Side

 

Interior Side

 

Rear

 

Height



Accessory structures**
 

30 feet

 

25 feet

 

6 feet

 

6 feet; 25 feet on double frontage lots

 

16 feet



Apartments
 

No less than 35 feet or the average height of the building, whichever is
greater

 

35 feet

 



 



 





Three- to eight-family building
 

30 feet

 

25 feet

 

20 feet*

 

40 feet

 

35 feet



NOTES TO TABLE:

*  Add 6 inches for each foot the average height of the building exceeds 20
feet.

**    Reference § 154.026



 



         (b)   Distance between buildings. The minimum distance
between buildings when the exterior walls are parallel shall be equal to the
height of the exterior wall or 15 feet, whichever is greater. Buildings shall
be no closer to one another at any point than 15 feet.



   (F)   Open space. A minimum of 20% of the land area of a
multiple-family residential development shall be devoted to private outdoor
passive or active recreation. This space shall be effectively separated from
automobile traffic and parking and be readily accessible. Provisions shall be
made for the permanent private maintenance of this land. The term “open
space” shall not include space devoted to streets and parking. This private
outdoor recreation space shall not be a substitute for the dedication of land
and/or cash for public parks as may be required by § 154.072 of this
chapter, regarding public sites, open spaces and bicycle and pedestrian paths.



   (G)   Parking requirements. Parking shall be provided according to
the regulations of § 154.116 and App. B of this chapter; except that, only
one-half parking space is required for each apartment for the elderly.
Parking areas or circulation drives shall be set back at least five feet from
any lot line.



   (H)   Common wall dwellings. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
154.056 of this chapter, one developer may construct two single-family
dwellings with a common wall and boundary line for which there may be no
building setback from the common boundary; provided:



      (1)   Each lot shall meet all other setback requirements for a
two-family dwelling;



      (2)   Separate services shall be furnished and provided to
each dwelling for sanitary sewer and water; and



      (3)   No fence or shrubbery divider shall be installed or
maintained on the common boundary line.



   (I)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall observe the
same setback requirements established for the multiple-residence building;
except that, accessory buildings located within the rear yard of the multiple
residence building may be located within six feet of the rear of interior
side property line. The city’s Planning Commission may require common walls
for accessory buildings where common walls will eliminate unsightly and
hazardous areas.



   (J)   Required play area. Any multiple-family housing development of
24 or more dwelling units (except housing for the elderly) shall plan for and
provide tot lot play facilities for pre-school children. The City Parks and
Recreation Commission shall review and approve these play facilities.
Developments immediately adjacent to (not across the street from) public
parks having tot lot facilities shall be exempt from this requirement.
Adjacent, but sequential, projects by the same developer shall be counted as
a single project.



   (K)   Condominiums. Condominiums, as defined and regulated by M.S.
Ch. 515, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be considered as
multiple-family dwelling structures in this code and shall be subject to all
R-4 District requirements, except as modified by the following.



      (1)   Approval of condominium floor plan. The condominium
floor plan required by M.S. § 515.13, as it may be amended from time to
time, shall not be filed with the Recorder until the same has been tendered
to and approved by the city. A transparency of the floor plan shall be given
to the city along with a copy of declaration required by M.S. § 515.11, as
it may be amended from time to time.



      (2)   Converting existing structure to condominium use. Where
any existing multiple-family dwelling is proposed for conversion to a
condominium use:



         (a)   The proposed condominium use shall comply with all
present zoning and building requirements; and



         (b)   A certificate of occupancy for each unit shall be
at completion of construction.



      (3)   Condominium minimum unit size. Each unit of a
condominium shall have minimum dimensions and minimum number of rooms as set
forth in the City Building Code.



(2004 Code, § 154.059)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-219, passed
3-10-1998; Ord. 07-0459, passed 3-13-2007)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.060  R-5, MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.



   (A)   Establishment hearing; information required. No manufactured
home park shall be established, except as a conditional use. The conditional
use permit for this shall not be issued except after a public hearing.
Manufactured home parks may be located in this district and in any other
district in which two or more family dwellings are a permitted use. No public
hearing shall be held until the following information is submitted:



      (1)   Location and size of the manufactured home park;



      (2)   Location and size of each housing unit site, dead
storage area, recreation area, roadways and parking sites and all setback
dimensions;



      (3)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;



      (4)   Professional engineered design plans for sanitary sewer
disposal, surface drainage and retention, potable water systems, electrical
services and fuel systems and storm shelters;



      (5)   Other information as is necessary to ensure conformance
with the requirements of this chapter; and



      (6)   Berming plans with planting schedule for screening and
buffering in accordance with § 154.115 of this chapter.



   (B)   Overall minimum park requirements.



      (1)   Each manufactured home park shall be of sufficient size
to contain at least 12 fully developed manufactured home sites and required
accessory and support areas.



      (2)   Each manufactured home park shall have access to a
private street which is deemed adequate to service a fire lane and the
anticipated traffic generated by the park.



      (3)   Each manufactured home park shall provide public potable
water and sewer facilities in accordance with standards determined by the
city and the State Department of Health.



      (4)   Each manufactured home park shall provide a common
central television antenna.



      (5)   All fuel systems shall be maintained from a common
central source metered to each individual coach site.



      (6)   At least 10% of the land area within each manufactured
park shall be designed for development for recreational purposes. These
spaces shall be developed and maintained by the owner of the manufactured
home park. The development shall be approved by the Parks, Recreation and
Community Education Advisory Board.



      (7)   Each manufactured home park shall have one or more
central community buildings.



      (8)   No manufactured home site, off-street parking space,
building or street shall be located within 30 feet of the boundary of any
manufactured home park. This boundary area shall be landscaped and screening
may be required by the city.



      (9)   Identification signs for the park shall be limited to
one sign not exceeding six square feet for each outside street frontage.
These signs may be illuminated, but not flashing. The maximum height of these
signs shall be 20 feet.



      (10)   Each manufactured home park shall have an office which
is distinctly marked and illuminated. Provisions shall be made for an adult
caretaker to be on duty and accessible at the park at all times. The
manufactured home park office shall maintain a registry showing the names and
addresses of each resident and the make, type and license of each
manufactured home and automobile belonging to occupants of the coach sites.



      (11)   Provisions shall be made in plans for every
manufactured home park to provide for a street fronting on each manufactured
home site. The streets may be either public or private as agreed upon between
the manufactured home park developer and the city.



      (12)   Each manufactured home park shall have a storm shelter
of adequate size for all its residents on site. Reference state statutes.



      (13)   All manufactured home park streets shall be constructed
of either asphalt or concrete, shall meet the standards specified by the City
Engineer and shall have concrete curb and gutter.



      (14)   The minimum street width shall be 36 feet (measured
between backs of curbs).



      (15)   Streets interior to a manufactured home park shall be
privately owned.



      (16)   No cul-de-sac street may be more than 250 feet in
length.



      (17)   Accessory structures shall be limited to one 12 feet by
16 feet (or smaller) utility building, the siding and color of which matches
the manufactured home. The shed will be permitted without a cement slab;
however, sheds placed on skids must be skirted to control rodents and pests.
Responsibility for policing this requirement rests with the park manager.



      (18)   Each manufactured home site shall have at least one
tree and one exterior light.



      (19)   Portions of each site not occupied by buildings or
parking spaces shall be landscaped.



      (20)   Parking shall be located within the park’s boundaries.



      (21)   Each manufactured home park shall have exterior
security street lighting designed and installed to engineering standards and
as approved at the recommendation of the Chief of Police.



   (C)   Requirements for lot dimensions and setbacks.



      (1)   Minimum lot dimensions.



 

Type of Manufactured Home
 

Minimum Lot Depth*

 

Minimum Lot Width



Double-wide manufactured home
 

115 feet

 

65 feet



Single-wide manufactured home
 

100 feet

 

50 feet



NOTES TO TABLE:

* Measured from the edge of the road unless the lots are platted.



 



      (2)   Minimum building setbacks.



 

R-5 Use
 

Front Setback

 

Rear

 

Main Entry Side

 

Secondary Entry Side

 

Interior Side

 

Corner Side



Accessory building
 

50 feet

 

0 feet

 

-

 

-

 

5 feet

 

20 feet



Manufactured home
 

25 feet

 

10 feet

 

25 feet

 

10 feet

 

-

 

-



Parking setbacks
 

5 feet

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-




 



      (3)   Distance from park boundary. No manufactured house,
parking space or accessory building may be located within 30 feet of the
exterior boundary of a manufactured home park.



   (D)   Building permit and development requirements.



      (1)   Initial permits for construction of manufactured home
parks will not be issued for the development of less than 12 manufactured
home sites. No permit will be issued until the developer provides site and
construction plans indicating the following:



         (a)   Location and size of the manufactured home park;



         (b)   Location and size of each manufactured home site,
dead storage area, recreation area, roadways and parking sites, and all
setback dimensions;



         (c)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications with
appropriate buffering;



         (d)   Plans for sanitary sewer disposal, surface
drainage, water systems, electrical services, fuel systems and trash disposal;



         (e)   Location and specifications for all streets
abutting the manufactured home park and proposed driveways from these streets
into the park;



         (f)   All road construction plans and specifications;



         (g)   Complete construction plans for all proposed
structures; and



         (h)   Other information as is necessary to ensure
conformance with the requirements of this chapter.



      (2)   The developer shall provide five copies of the above
required plans and shall submit a detailed description of construction plans
indicating the time involved, cost estimates, stage developments, if any, and
a detailed description of maintenance procedures and ground supervision and
methods proposed for disposal of garbage and refuse.



      (3)   The city may require performance bonds in amounts
adequate to insure that development proposed in the plan submitted is
actually completed.



      (4)   All developers of manufactured home parks shall provide
evidence that the plans therefor have been approved by the State Department
of Health and that the developer will comply with all recommendations,
suggestions and regulations specified by that department relative to
manufactured home park regulations.



      (5)   Manufactured home parks shall meet the requirements of
§§ 154.085 through 154.098 of this chapter, regarding flood plain districts.



      (6)   All manufactured homes as defined by M.S. §§ 327.31
through 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be anchored
in accordance with the State Building Code, as it may be amended from time to
time.



      (7)   Any newly installed manufactured home older than 15
years from time of the building permit will require an inspection to confirm
the following life safety criteria.



      (8)   All relocated manufactured homes pre- 6-14-1976, require
a conditional use permit. Approval may be granted; provided, the following
criteria are met:



         (a)   Smoke detectors are required in each bedroom and
in the corridor;



         (b)   The windows must be double glaze, minimum;



         (c)   One egress window is required from each bedroom;



         (d)   Gas piping installation must be retested,
reinspected and approved by the City Building Inspector. Hutch Utilities
provides seven-inch w.c.;



         (e)   The electrical service must be a minimum of
100-amp circuit breaker type with ground fault interruption. All electrical
must be intact and safe (i.e., no exposed wiring);



         (f)   A building permit is required after approval of
the conditional use permit;



         (g)   Compliance with M.S. §§ 327.32 and 327.34, as
they may be amended from time to time, and other applicable building codes
and standards and regulations; and



         (h)   Common sense items, including, but not limited to,
no broken windows, handrails, guardrails, safe heating appliances and water
heaters, no holes in floors, no exposed wiring, a shower/bathtub, functional
water closets and the like.



(2004 Code, § 154.060)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 97-192, passed
4-8-1997; Ord. 98-237, passed 9-8-1998)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.061  C-1, NEIGHBORHOOD CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The C-1 Commercial District is intended to allow
suitable, small sites within the city for businesses which offer services and
retail goods needed by residents of the surrounding neighborhoods on a daily
or weekly basis and are not intended to draw customers from the entire
community.



   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted, as regulated
herein, without special application requirements or conditions attached.
Highly similar uses not listed may be allowed at the discretion and review of
the City Council:



      (1)   Bakeries;



      (2)   Barber shops;



      (3)   Candy and ice cream shops;



      (4)   Churches and houses of worship and related facilities;



      (5)   Convenience food stores without gas pumps;



      (6)   Drug stores;



      (7)   Dry cleaning and laundry receiving and pick-up stations,
excluding processing;



      (8)   Florist shops;



      (9)   Hardware stores;



      (10)   Laundromats (self-service laundry);



      (11)   Offices not exceeding 3,000 square feet gross floor
area;



      (12)   Tailor shops; and



      (13)   Variety, gift, notion and soft goods stores not
exceeding 3,000 square feet in gross floor area.



   (C)   Conditional uses.



      (1)   Restaurants, not exceeding 3,000 square feet in gross
floor area, but excluding convenience food-type restaurants where food is
served in disposable containers and may be eaten on the premises or taken out
for eating; and



      (2)   Video game shops.



   (D)   Accessory uses.



      (1)   Any accessory use, building or structure customarily
incidental to a principal use permitted above, and located on the same lot;



      (2)   Parking and loading facilities, as regulated in §
154.116 of this chapter; and



      (3)   Signs as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144 of
this chapter.



   (E)   Dimensional regulations; C-1 District.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

15 feet

 

6 feet

 

6 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

25 feet

 

10 feet

 

10 feet



Street right-of-way
 

30 feet

 

30 feet

 

10 feet




 



      (2)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 18 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 15 feet.



   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to development standards in §§
154.110 through 154.125 and 154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter for
additional regulations pertaining to the following:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.061)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 16-751, passed
2-9-2016)



§ 154.062  C-2, AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The C-2 District is intended to provide locations for
businesses which generate a high degree of automobile traffic and which would
properly be developed along major thoroughfares of the community.



   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses are permitted, as
regulated herein, without special application requirements or conditions
attached. Highly similar uses not listed may be allowed upon the
determination of the City Council.



      (1)   Retail sales businesses;



      (2)   Service stations, automobile repair shops. For
standards, see § 154.111 of this chapter;



      (3)   Car wash operations, including automated lanes. For
standards, see § 154.112 of this chapter;



      (4)   Business and professional offices;



      (5)   Drive-through banking facilities, postal centers and
similar uses;



      (6)   Convenience goods store; including gasoline pumps,
subject to a maximum of 4,000 square feet of enclosed sales area;



      (7)   New car, marine, farm machinery, manufactured home,
sales and display areas, when operated in conjunction with and as part of the
new item franchised dealership;



      (8)   Nurseries and garden supply centers;



      (9)   Motels; and



      (10)   Restaurants, including convenience food restaurants.



   (C)   Conditional uses. Used car, farm machinery, marine and mobile
home sales and display areas when not operated as a part of new item
franchise dealership, brew pubs, tap rooms and micro- distillery cocktail
rooms.



   (D)   Accessory uses.



      (1)   Any accessory use, building or structure customarily
incidental to a principal use permitted above, and located on the same lot
therewith;



      (2)   Parking and loading facilities as regulated in §
154.116 of this chapter; and



      (3)   Signs as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144 of
this chapter.



   (E)   Dimensional regulations; C-2 District.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

20 feet

 

6 feet

 

6 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

50 feet

 

10 feet

 

10 feet



Street right-of-way
 

30 feet

 

30 feet

 

10 feet




 



      (2)   Lot dimension requirements.



         (a)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet; and



         (b)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 40 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 15 feet.



   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.110 through 154.125 and
154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter for regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.062)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 14-0733, passed
9-9-2014; Ord. 16-750, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016)



§ 154.063  C-3, CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The C-3 Central Commercial District is intended to
provide an area for the grouping of general retail sales establishments,
offices and services which serve city residents and the surrounding area. The
C-3 District provisions and boundaries are intended to promote compatible
land use relationships among diverse types of uses and encourage well-planned
development or expansion in accord with the approved Comprehensive Plan. Only
those uses which substantially interfere with the overall function of the
general commercial area will be excluded. On-site parking is not required in
this district.



   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted as regulated
herein, without special application requirements or conditions attached.
Similar uses may be allowed upon the determination of the City Council:



      (1)   Trade and services: any retail store or personal service
business subject to all regulations and permits and licenses as may be
required by law; and, further provided that, the use is not objectionable due
to noise, fumes, smoke, odor or vibration, including the following and other
similar uses;



      (2)   Cultural facilities;



      (3)   Trade and business schools;



      (4)   Catering establishments;



      (5)   Employment agencies;



      (6)   Game and amusement arcades;



      (7)   Hotels and motels;



      (8)   Interior decorating service and sales;



      (9)   Offices for corporations and professionals;



      (10)   Publishing, job printing and blueprinting;



      (11)   Post offices and other public service operations;



      (12)   Restaurants;



      (13)   Taverns;



      (14)   Theaters;



      (15)   Commercial parking lots;



      (16)   Pawnbroker establishments;



      (17)   Massage service establishments; and



      (18)   Upper level apartment units.



   (C)   Conditional permitted uses.



      (1)   Commercial parking ramps for passenger vehicles only;
provided, a reservoir space is provided within the structure for holding cars
awaiting entrance, which reservoir space shall have a capacity of no less
than two vehicles;



      (2)   New or used automobile sales; indoor display area only;



      (3)   Motor fuel and service stations, excluding major repair
operation. See App. B to this chapter for the off-street parking schedule;



      (4)   A state licensed residential facility serving from seven
through 16 persons;



      (5)   Group homes up to 5,000 square feet;



      (6)   All licensed day care facilities which are not permitted
principal uses under state law;



      (7)   Single-family residences applying for additions, decks,
garages, remodeling or other single-family related uses;



      (8)   (a)   Drive-through windows (specific considerations
of traffic impact, accessibility to appropriate roadways, site plan
consideration and other relevant information would be part of the application
review); and



         (b)   Conditions for residential facilities, group
homes, crisis shelters and licensed day care facilities shall not be imposed
which are more restrictive than those imposed on conditional uses or other
multi-family residential property in the same district, unless the additional
conditions are necessary to protect the health or the safety of the residents
of the residential facility.



      (9)   The requirements of § 154.115 of this chapter shall
apply to the conditional uses described in this section;



      (10)   Tattoo establishments;



      (11)   Brew pubs;



      (12)   Tap rooms; and



      (13)   Micro-distillery cocktail rooms.



   (D)   Dimensional requirements; C-3 Districts.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

0 feet

 

0 feet

 

0 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

10 feet

 

10 feet

 

10 feet



Street right-of-way
 

0 feet

 

20 feet

 

5 feet




 



      (2)   Lot dimension requirements.



         (a)   Minimum lot area: none stipulated;



         (b)   Minimum lot width: none stipulated; and



         (c)   Minimum lot depth: none stipulated.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   None; except that, Council approval is required
for any structure in excess of six stories or 75 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 20 feet.



   (E)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.015 through 154.026 of
this chapter, regarding general requirements, and §§ 154.110 through
154.125 and 154.140 through 154.144, regarding development standards, for
regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.063)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 96-167, passed
6-10-1996; Ord. 96-182, passed 11-12-1996; Ord. 03-357, passed 10-14-2003;
Ord. 05-0403, passed 5-10-2005; Ord. 12-0689, passed 7-10-2012; Ord. 14-0733,
passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 16-750, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 16-751, passed
2-9-2016)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.064  C-4, FRINGE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The C-4 Commercial District is intended to provide
one or more areas for the grouping of general retail sales establishments,
offices and services which offer convenient shopping facilities for city
residents and the surrounding area. C-4 District provisions and boundaries
are established to promote compatible land use relationships among diverse
types of uses and encourage well-planned development or expansion in accord
with the city’s Comprehensive Plan. Only those uses which substantially
interfere with the overall function of the general commercial area will be
excluded.



   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted as regulated
herein, without special application requirements or conditions attached.
Similar uses may be allowed upon the determination of the City Council:



      (1)   Trade and services: any retail store or personal service
business subject to all regulations and permits and licenses as may be
required by law; and, further provided that, the use is not objectionable due
to noise, fumes, smoke, odor or vibration, including the following and other
similar uses as determined by the city’s Planning Commission;



      (2)   Catering businesses;



      (3)   Convenience grocery stores;



      (4)   Cultural facilities;



      (5)   Game and amusement arcades;



      (6)   Hotels and motels;



      (7)   Motor vehicle sales and service establishments;



      (8)   Post offices and other public service operations;



      (9)   Restaurants, including convenience food;



      (10)   Taverns;



      (11)   Theaters;



      (12)   Trade and business schools, technical colleges,
vocational schools, universities;



      (13)   Hospitals;



      (14)   Crisis shelters;



      (15)   Car washes;



      (16)   Pawnbroker establishments;



      (17)   Massage service establishments; and



      (18)   Offices; business and professional.



   (C)   Conditional permitted uses.



      (1)   Permitted uses listed in the C-2 District, but not
including used car, farm machinery, marine or manufactured home sales;



      (2)   Commercial parking structures;



      (3)   Churches and houses of worship and related facilities;



      (4)   Storage units;



      (5)   Tattoo establishments;



      (6)   Towing company offices with fenced impound lots, subject
to providing a completely fenced and screened enclosure. Fences must be a
minimum of six feet high and constructed of wood or equivalent materials;



      (7)   Dog daycare;



      (8)   Brew pubs;



      (9)   Tap rooms; and



      (10)   Micro-distillery cocktail rooms.



   (D)   Accessory uses. The following uses are permitted only when
auxiliary to a principal use permitted above:



      (1)   Any accessory use, building or structure customarily
incidental to a principal use permitted above, and located on the same lot
therewith;



      (2)   Parking and loading facilities as regulated in §
154.116 of this chapter; and



      (3)   Signs as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144 of
this chapter.



   (E)   Dimensional requirements; C-4 District.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

20 feet

 

6 feet

 

6 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

50 feet

 

50 feet

 

10 feet



Street right-of-way
 

25 feet

 

20 feet

 

10 feet




 



      (2)   Minimum lot dimension requirements.



         (a)   Lot area: one acre;



         (b)   Lot width: 200 feet; and



         (c)   Lot depth: 180 feet.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 40 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 25 feet.



   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.110 through 154.125 and
154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter, regarding development standards, for
regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.064)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 96-167, passed
6-10-1996; Ord. 06-0447, passed 11-14-2006; Ord. 08-0516, passed 11-12-2008;
Ord. 11-0668, passed 5-10-2011; Ord. 12-0690, passed 7-10-2012; Ord. 14-0733,
passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 16-750, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 16-751, passed
2-9-2016)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.065  C-5, CONDITIONAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-5 Conditional Commercial
District is to provide for business, commercial and retail uses that are
conveniently accessed by major arterial traffic.



      (1)   Development will be allowed only as a conditional use to:



         (a)   Ease land use transition;



         (b)   Control development so that it is compatible with
the surrounding property; and



         (c)   Establish dimensional requirements on an
individual basis.



      (2)   Those uses which substantially interfere with the
overall function of the area will be excluded.



      (3)   Development shall also meet standards for lighting,
landscaping and pedestrian access.



   (B)   Permitted uses.



      (1)   There are no permitted principal uses in the C-5
District.



      (2)   (a)   Any accessory use, building or structure
customarily incidental to a permitted conditional use listed below, and
located on the same lot therewith not to exceed 320 square feet;



         (b)   Parking and loading facilities, as regulated in §
154.116 and App. B of this chapter; and



         (c)   Signs as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144
of this chapter.



   (C)   Conditional uses. Buildings or land may be used for the
following if granted a conditional use permit:



      (1)   Trade and services: any retail store, personal service
or business service establishments, subject to all regulations and permits
and licenses as may be required by law, including the following and other
similar uses;



      (2)   Business and professional offices;



      (3)   Candy and ice cream shops;



      (4)   Cultural establishments: museums, galleries and the like;



      (5)   Convenience goods stores; including gasoline pumps,
subject to a maximum of 4,000 square feet of enclosed sales area;



      (6)   Freestanding and attached car washes;



      (7)   Hotels and motels;



      (8)   Motor fuel and service stations, excluding major repair
operation. See App. B to this chapter for the off-street parking schedule;



      (9)   Restaurants, including convenience food;



      (10)   Retail sales;



      (11)   Theaters;



      (12)   Variety, gift, notion, antique and soft goods stores;



      (13)   Brew pubs;



      (14)   Tap rooms; and



      (15)   Micro-distillery cocktail rooms.



   (D)   Accessory uses.



      (1)   Any accessory use, building or structure customarily
incidental to a permitted conditional use listed above, and located on the
same lot as the conditionally permitted principal use;



      (2)   Parking and loading facilities, as regulated in §
154.116 and App. B to this chapter; and



      (3)   Signs as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144 of
this chapter.



   (E)   Recommended dimensional guidelines; C-5 District. Subject to
Building Code requirements.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Principal Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

20 feet

 

6 feet

 

10 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

50 feet

 

50 feet

 

20 feet



Street right-of-way
 

30 feet

 

30 feet

 

10 feet




 



      (2)   Review. Everything should have a conditional use. The
development will be reviewed by the Planning Commission, and all conditional
uses will require a site plan.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 40 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 25 feet.



   (F)   Building design and construction. Any building or structure
within the C-5 District shall be designed to promote the use and enjoyment of
adjacent properties and be architecturally harmonious with the adjacent
properties. Building designs shall be approved by the city’s Planning
Commission at the time a conditional use permit is approved.



   (G)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage shall be prohibited in the
C-5 District.



   (H)   Landscaping and lighting. All designs for landscaping and
lighting are subject to review by the Planning Commission and City Council as
part of the required site plan.



      (1)   All exposed ground areas surrounding or within a
principal or accessory use, including street boulevards, which are not
devoted to drives, sidewalks, patios or other such uses shall be landscaped.
All landscaped areas shall be kept neat, clean and uncluttered. No landscaped
area shall be used for parking of vehicles.



      (2)   Landscaping shall include:



         (a)   Landscaped area encompassing a minimum of 15% and
a recommended 20% of lot area;



         (b)   Tree planting at the rate of at least one tree per
800 square feet of landscaping area;



         (c)   A combination of berming and tree planting; and



         (d)   Berming with low ground cover (slopes shall be no
greater than one foot in elevation per three horizontal feet).



      (3)   The minimum size of a planted tree shall be two inches
caliper for deciduous trees and six feet in height for coniferous trees.



      (4)   Lighting shall not be directed upon the public
right-of-way and nearby or adjacent properties. Illumination must be indirect
or diffused. Lighting standards shall be compatible with the style of the
existing street lights and the surrounding area (TH7 and 22).



   (I)   Sidewalks. All site plans for conditional uses shall include
sidewalks five feet in width which shall run the length of the street
frontage of the lot within the street boulevard. All sidewalks shall be a
minimum of four inches thick concrete over a minimum of six inches of Class 5
gravel. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of eight inches thick at driveways. All
other city construction requirements shall be followed.



   (J)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.110 through 154.125 and
154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter, regarding development standards, for
regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Fences;



      (4)   Signs;



      (5)   Pollution; and



      (6)   Pole buildings.



(2004 Code, § 154.065)  (Ord. 96-168, passed 6-10-1996; Ord. 14-0733,
passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 16-750, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 16-751, passed
2-9-2016)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.066  I/C, INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of the I/C District to allow for
development of areas where there is a transition in use occurring, but sites
are not available which would allow for compliance with other district
requirements. Industrial or commercial development will be allowed only as a
conditional permitted use to:



      (1)   Ease land use transition;



      (2)   Control development so that it is compatible with
surrounding property; and



      (3)   Establish dimensional requirements on an individual
basis.



   (B)   Permitted uses.



      (1)   There are no permitted principal uses in the I/C
District.



      (2)   (a)   Any accessory use, building or structure
customarily incidental to a permitted conditional use listed below, and
located on the same lot therewith not to exceed 320 square feet;



         (b)   Parking and loading facilities, as regulated in §
154.116 and App. B to this chapter;



         (c)   Signs as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144
of this chapter;



         (d)   Pawnbroker establishments; and



         (e)   Massage service establishments.



   (C)   Conditional uses. Buildings or land may be used for the
following if granted a conditional use permit; and, provided further that,
any objectionable features normally associated with these uses, such as those
deemed to be hazardous, offensive or objectionable by reason of odor, dust,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter or
water-carried waste, shall be ameliorated, controlled or eliminated through
design, mechanical devices, screen planting and/or walls or other measures as
specified by the Planning Commission, and authorized that the use and its day
to day activity will not be unreasonably hazardous, noxious or offensive:



      (1)   Trade and services: any retail store, personal service
or business service establishments, subject to all regulations and permits
and licenses as may be required by law, including the following and other
similar uses;



      (2)   Automobile or trailer sales and service establishments;



      (3)   Building materials and hardware, retail sales and
repairs;



      (4)   Business and professional offices;



      (5)   Cultural, entertainment and recreational establishments;



      (6)   General merchandising, apparel and accessories and
establishments;



      (7)   Car wash operations, including automated lanes. See App.
B to this chapter for the off-street parking schedule;



      (8)   Catering establishments;



      (9)   Churches and houses of worship and related facilities;



      (10)   Convenience goods and food shops, subject to a maximum
of 5,000 square feet of sales area;



      (11)   Dog kennels;



      (12)   Drive-in or drive-through restaurants, banking
facilities and the like;



      (13)   Employment agencies;



      (14)   Fairgrounds;



      (15)   Furniture, home furnishing and equipment, sales and
display;



      (16)   Hotels and motels;



      (17)   Manufacturing: any light manufacturing or process
including repairs, assembling, fabricating, altering, converting, finishing,
processing, treating, testing, packaging or bottling, except any use or
process hereinafter specifically excluded or which would not be in keeping
with the purpose of the district as stated above. This determination shall be
made by the Zoning Administrator upon review of the building permit
application;



      (18)   Motor vehicle body shops;



      (19)   Post offices and other public service operations;



      (20)   Publishing, job printing and blue printing;



      (21)   Nurseries, garden supply centers;



      (22)   Restaurants;



      (23)   Service stations, automobile repair shops. Standards
for automobile services stations are set forth in § 154.111 of this chapter;



      (24)   Taverns;



      (25)   Trade and business schools;



      (26)   Theaters;



      (27)   Warehousing, storage and wholesaling: the storage,
handling, assembly and distribution of goods and materials for retail,
wholesale or on-site use. This does not include truck terminals, which are
not allowed in this district;



      (28)   Recyclable materials collection centers;



      (29)   Brew pubs;



      (30)   Tap rooms; and



      (31)   Micro-distillery cocktail rooms.



   (D)   Accessory uses.



      (1)   Any accessory use, building or structure customarily
incidental to a permitted principal use and located on the same lot as the
permitted principal use;



      (2)   Parking and loading facilities as regulated by §
154.116 and App. B to this chapter; and



      (3)   Signs as regulated by §§ 154.140 through 154.144 of
this chapter.



   (E)   Recommended dimensional guidelines; I/C District. Subject to
Building Code requirements.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Principal Structure Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Street right-of-way
 

30 feet

 

30 feet

 

10 feet



Interior lot line
 

20 feet

 

6 feet

 

10 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

50 feet

 

50 feet

 

20 feet




 



      (2)   Review. Everything should be a conditional use. The
development will be reviewed by the Planning Commission. All conditional uses
will require a site plan.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 40 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 25 feet.



   (F)   Building design and construction. Any building or structure
within the I/C District shall be designed to promote the use and enjoyment of
adjacent properties and be architecturally harmonious with adjacent
properties. Building designs shall be approved by the city’s Planning
Commission at the time a conditional use permit is approved.



   (G)   Outdoor storage; conditional use permit. All materials,
supplies, merchandise by-products or other similar matter not on display for
direct sale, rental or lease to the ultimate consumer or uses shall be stored
within a completely enclosed building or within the confines of a 100% opaque
wall or fence no less than six feet tall, or other buffering approved by the
City Council. Merchandise which is offered for sale as described heretofore
may be displayed beyond the confines of a building only upon application to
the City Council for conditional use permit and only following agreement to
all conditions which may be attached to that authorization.



   (H)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.110 through 154.125 and
154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter, regarding development standards, for
regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.066)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 14-0733, passed
9-9-2014; Ord. 16-750, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016)



§ 154.067  I-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of the I-1 District to create
industrial areas that will be acceptable within the city and will not
adversely affect adjacent business or residential neighborhoods. Industrial
establishments should be either:



      (1)   Those whose operations are relatively free from
objectionable influences; or



      (2)   Those whose objectionable features will be obviated by
design or appropriate devices.



   (B)   Permitted uses. Within an I-1 District, unless otherwise
provided by this chapter, no uses are permitted, except for the following:



      (1)   Manufacturing: any light manufacturing or process
including repairs, assembling, fabricating, altering, converting, finishing,
processing, treating, testing, packaging or bottling; except any use or
process hereinafter specifically excluded or which would not be in keeping
with the purpose of the district as stated above. This determination shall be
made by the Planning Commission upon review of the building permit
application. Manufacturing includes the storage of goods or materials related
to the manufacturing process;



      (2)   Offices;



      (3)   Office-showroom buildings;



      (4)   Warehousing, storage and wholesaling: the storage,
handling and distribution of goods and materials for retail, wholesale or
on-site use, except any hazardous combustible materials or flammable liquids
or gases. This classification does not include truck terminals;



      (5)   Vocational and technical schools;



      (6)   Pawnbroker establishments; and



      (7)   Massage services establishments.



   (C)   Conditional uses.



      (1)   Motor vehicle body shops;



      (2)   Dog kennels;



      (3)   Bulk storage of liquid;



      (4)   Athletic clubs;



      (5)   Restaurants;



      (6)   Recyclable material collection center;



      (7)   Grain elevators;



      (8)   Tattoo establishments and sexually-oriented businesses;



      (9)   Storage units;



      (10)   Schools;



      (11)   Towing company buildings with fenced impound lots,
subject to providing a completely fenced and screened enclosure to 100%
opacity. Fences must be a minimum of six feet high and constructed of wood or
equivalent materials; and



      (12)   Truck terminals.



   (D)   Accessory uses.



      (1)   Any accessory use, building or structure customarily
incidental to a principal use permitted above, and located on the same lot
therewith;



      (2)   Specialized freight and yard equipment, private utility
structures, secondary processing structures and similar specialized
structures;



      (3)   Parking and loading facilities as regulated in §§
154.116 and App. B to this chapter; and



      (4)   Signs as regulated in §§ 154.140 through 154.144 of
this chapter.



   (E)   Dimensional requirements; I-1 District.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

20 feet

 

6 feet

 

10 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

75 feet

 

75 feet

 

30 feet



Street right-of-way
 

30 feet

 

30 feet

 

20 feet




 



      (2)   Minimum lot dimension requirements.



         (a)   Lot area: one acre;



         (b)   Lot width: 200 feet; and



         (c)   Lot depth: 250 feet.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 40 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 25 feet.



   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.110 through 154.125 and
154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter, regarding development standards, for
regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.067)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 96-167, passed
6-10-1996; Ord. 07-0451, passed 1-9-2007; Ord. 07-0467, passed 8-14-2007;
Ord. 11-0668, passed 5-10-2011; Ord. 12-0683, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 14-0723,
passed 4-8-2014; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.068  I-2, HEAVY INDUSTRY DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the I-2 Heavy Industry District is to
allow certain industrial uses which may not be consistent with the intentions
of the I-1 Light Industrial District by virtue of their appearance, traffic
or emissions. All these land uses are, of course, subject to the applicable
regulations of this chapter and the state.



   (B)   Permitted principal uses.



      (1)   Any type of land development allowed in the I-1 Light
Industrial District;



      (2)   Municipal compost site and tree dump;



      (3)   Municipal mining operations;



      (4)   Municipal sanitation facilities;



      (5)   Municipal solid waste transfer facilities;



      (6)   Grain elevators;



      (7)   Pawnbroker establishments; and



      (8)   Massage service establishments.



   (C)   Conditional uses. Buildings or land may be used for the
following if granted a conditional use permit as provided in § 154.170 of
this chapter; and, provided further that, any objectionable features normally
associated with these uses, such as those deemed to be hazardous, offensive
or objectionable by reason of odor, dust, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation,
refuse matter or water-borne waste shall be ameliorated, controlled or
eliminated through design, mechanical devices, landscaping and/or walls, or
other measures as specified by the city’s Planning Commission, and
authorized that the use and its day to day activity will not be unreasonably
hazardous, noxious or offensive:



      (1)   Truck terminals;



      (2)   Truck parts and scrap metal yards:



         (a)   If located at least 1,000 feet from the nearest
residential zoning district; and



         (b)   If all operations are conducted within an area
enclosed with a solid wall or uniform fence of 100% opacity, at least eight
feet in height, and landscaped and maintained to the satisfaction of the
city’s Planning Commission.



      (3)   Railroad stub yard and freight stations, if located at
least 1,000 feet from the nearest residential zoning district;



      (4)   Other land uses by conditional use permit:



         (a)   If located at least 1,000 feet from the nearest
residential zoning district;



         (b)   If screened and landscaped to the satisfaction of
the city’s Planning Commission; and



         (c)   If that land use has been approved by the Chief of
the Fire Department and State Pollution Control Agency.



      (5)   Manufacture of acids, glues, paints, inks, gases,
fertilizer, cement, lime or gypsum, or similar noxious or toxic materials;



      (6)   Rendering or reduction of fats or animal parts; and



      (7)   Tattoo establishments and sexually-oriented businesses.



   (D)   Accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses within an I-2 District:



      (1)   Specialized freight and yard equipment;



      (2)   Private utility structures;



      (3)   Secondary processing structures; and



      (4)   Similar specialized structures.



   (E)   Dimensional requirements; I-2 District.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Principal Structure Setback

 

Accessory Structure Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

20 feet

 

6 feet

 

20 feet



Residential zoning boundary  

(2)   Minimum lot dimension requirements.

	(a)   Lot area: three acres;



         (b)   Lot width: 250 feet; and



         (c)   Lot depth: 400 feet.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 50 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 35 feet.



   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.110 through 154.125 and
154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter, regarding development standards, for
regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.068)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 96-167, passed
6-10-1996; Ord. 11-0668, passed 5-10-2011; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016) 
Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.069  BP, BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Business Park District is to
provide for office buildings, research and development buildings and certain
light industries which complement the appearance and function of the office
environment, all of which would be in a planned and landscaped setting.



   (B)   Permitted principal uses.



      (1)   Office buildings;



      (2)   Research and development buildings;



      (3)   Financial institutions;



      (4)   Tennis, racquet and athletic clubs; and



      (5)   Restaurants.



   (C)   Conditional uses. Light industry, subject to the following
conditions:



      (1)   A very limited number of truck docking facilities and a
low degree of traffic by semi-trailer trucks;



      (2)   A well-landscaped site;



      (3)   Architectural compatibility with an office park, namely:



         (a)   Equal facade treatment on all sides; and



         (b)   No truck docks or truck doors on the street side
of a building; docks and doors on the side of a building must be screened by
landscaping or wing walls.



      (4)   Office-showroom buildings, subject to the following
conditions:



         (a)   A well-landscaped site; and



         (b)   Truck doors screened by landscaping, wing walls or
the building.



   (D)   Accessory uses. Allowable accessory uses include any structure
normally associated with the permitted principal or conditional uses.



   (E)   Dimensional requirements; BP District.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 

Item Set Back From
 

Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Interior lot line
 

20 feet

 

6 feet

 

10 feet



Residential zoning boundary
 

75 feet

 

50 feet

 

30 feet



Street right-of-way
 

30 feet

 

30 feet

 

20 feet




 



      (2)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 40 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 20 feet.



   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to §§ 154.110 through 154.125 and
154.140 through 154.144 of this chapter, regarding development standards, for
regulations pertaining to:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences;



      (5)   Signs;



      (6)   Outdoor storage and displays;



      (7)   Building facade materials;



      (8)   Pole buildings; and



      (9)   Pollution.



(2004 Code, § 154.069)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 16-751, passed
2-9-2016)



§ 154.070  PD, PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The following regulations are set forth in order that
the public health, safety, morals and general welfare may be furthered in an
era of increasing urbanization to encourage innovations in residential,
commercial and industrial development and renewal; to stimulate opportunities
for better housing and recreation, shops and industrial plants conveniently
located near each other; to accommodate changes in the technology of land
development; to encourage a more creative approach in the utilization of land
which may be characterized by special features of the geography, topography,
size or shape of a particular property; and to provide a compatible and
stable environment in harmony with that of the surrounding area.



      (1)   The Planned Development District (PDD) may include any
developments having one or more land uses or structures on a single parcel of
ground or contiguous parcels; provided that, the total area is three acres or
larger. The PDD shall consist of a harmonious selection of uses and grouping
of buildings, parking areas, circulation and open spaces, and shall be
designed as an integrated unit.



      (2)   Under the provisions of this district, the City Council
has the right to allow deviations from any standards set forth in this
chapter. However, rezonings to the Planned Development District shall not be
allowed merely as a convenience or benefit to the applicant or as a means of
circumventing the requirements of this chapter. Rather, the PD District shall
be used to create a development having greater public benefit than would
otherwise have been possible.



   (B)   Ownership.



      (1)   The tract shall be a development of land under unified
control at the time of application, planned and scheduled to be developed as
a whole. However, no authorizations or permits shall be granted for the
development unless the applicant has acquired actual ownership of, or
executed a binding sales contract for all of the property comprising the
tract.



      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



         OWNERSHIP. Includes a lease of not less than 50 years’
duration.



         SINGLE OWNERSHIP. Includes ownership of portions of the
development by two or more wholly owned subsidiaries of a single owner, or by
the single owner and one or more of its wholly owned subsidiaries.



   (C)   Consistency with the Comprehensive Plan. The development
should be designed so that it is consistent with the city’s Comprehensive
Plan.



   (D)   Allowable uses. There are no permitted uses in the planned
development district. However, any combination of residential or
non-residential land uses may be allowed through a conditional use permit as
long as the project is consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan and
other requirements of this section are met.



   (E)   Open space.



      (1)   A minimum of 20% of the land area of a planned
residential development shall be devoted to private outdoor passive or active
recreation. This space shall be effectively separated from automobile traffic
and parking and be readily accessible. Provisions shall be made for the
permanent private maintenance of this land. The term “open space” shall
not include space devoted to streets and parking.



      (2)   This private outdoor recreation space shall not be a
substitute for the dedication of land and/or cash for public parks as may be
required by another city ordinance.



   (F)   Residential development density. A maximum density increase of
100% may be allowed for a planned residential development for the elderly
based on an evaluation by the city staff and the city’s Planning Commission
of the project’s degree of design excellence and public benefit.



      (1)   The city’s Planning Commission and City Council, in
determining the reasonableness of the proposed increase in density or
intensity of land use, shall consider:



         (a)   The location, amount and proposed use of common
open space;



         (b)   The location, design and type of dwelling units;
and



         (c)   The physical characteristics of the site.



      (2)   No increase in density shall be allowed which would
adversely affect nearby land values.



   (G)   Setbacks. The building and parking lot setback regulations
normally in force through the existing zoning district for the site shall be
used as a guide in reviewing proposed setbacks, although deviations from
those setback regulations may be allowed by the PDD development plan.



   (H)   Architecture. Architectural style of buildings shall not
solely be a basis for the denial or approval of a PDD development plan.
However, the overall appearance and compatibility of individual buildings to
other site elements or to surrounding development will be primary
considerations in the review of the application.



   (I)   General application procedure. An applicant for a planned
development district shall apply for a rezoning, a conditional use permit and
(if applicable) a preliminary plat, and shall pay the application fee
established by ordinance of the City Council. The review procedure includes a
concept plan review, a development plan review, rezoning and a conditional
use permit approval. The concept review is a strongly recommended informal
review with the city staff and, possibly, the city’s Planning Commission.
The rezoning of the property and the conditional use permit shall not be
approved until after the development plan has been approved by the City
Council (all of which may occur at the same public meeting).



   (J)   Development plan: submittals required. The following items are
required for review and approval of a PDD development plan:



      (1)   Location, size and legal description of the site;



      (2)   A vicinity map showing the location of the site in
relation to the surrounding neighborhood;



      (3)   A site plan or plans showing all existing features of
the site, including:



         (a)   A boundary survey prepared by a registered land
surveyor;



         (b)   A topographic survey (minimum contour interval of
two feet);



         (c)   Public rights-of-way;



         (d)   Private road and utility easements;



         (e)   Existing roads;



         (f)   Wetlands and ponds;



         (g)   Utilities;



         (h)   Drainage courses;



         (i)   Major vegetation;



         (j)   Buildings and other structures;



         (k)   The present zoning; and



         (l)   The planned land use(s) according to the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.



      (4)   Site plans showing the location of all proposed:



         (a)   Buildings and structures;



         (b)   Public roads and rights-of-way;



         (c)   Driveways and parking lots;



         (d)   Private open areas;



         (e)   Public park land;



         (f)   Wetlands, ponds and drainage courses;



         (g)   Water and sewer utility lines;



         (h)   Landscaping (including species and size);



         (i)   Signs (placement and characteristics); and



         (j)   Site development data.



      (5)   A grading and drainage plan using two-foot topographic
contour intervals (prepared by a registered professional engineer);



      (6)   Submittals as required in Ch. 153 of this code,
regarding subdivisions, for the approval of a preliminary plat;



      (7)   Sketches illustrating building facade design and
materials;



      (8)   A staging plan if the project is intended to be built
over a series of years; and



      (9)   A written statement addressing:



         (a)   The applicant’s ownership position in the site;



         (b)   The proposed method of finance;



         (c)   The market for any proposed commercial activities
if the property is not zoned for commercial use at the time of submittal of
the preliminary development plan;



         (d)   Provisions for ultimate ownership and maintenance
of all parts of the development, including streets, structures and open
spaces; and



         (e)   The total anticipated population to occupy the
planned development, with breakdowns as to the number of school age children,
adults and families.



   (K)   Development plan, rezoning and conditional use permit:
approval procedure.



      (1)   The procedure for review and approval or denial by the
city’s Planning Commission and City Council of a PDD development plan,
preliminary plat (if applicable), rezoning and conditional use permit shall
be the same as that established for a rezoning (zoning ordinance amendment)
in § 154.173 of this chapter.



      (2)   In conjunction with the rezoning, the development plan
shall be attached to and become part of the ordinance establishing the
rezoning. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall then change the zoning
classification on the official zoning map to designate the district or
portion of a district as a PD District. A number shall be assigned each PD
District in sequence through each year (e.g., 90-1). The development plan and
all supporting documents will form the ordinance establishing the PD District.



      (3)   Building permits shall not be issued for any of the
structures, or land alterations shall not be made, until the following
conditions are met:



         (a)   Public open space has been deeded to the city and
officially recorded;



         (b)   A cash payment in lieu of land donation has been
made to coincide with construction of each building;



         (c)   The design and construction specifications for all
utilities, street improvements and mass grading have been approved by the
City Engineer;



         (d)   The homeowners’ association bylaws, covenants
and deed restrictions have been approved by the City Attorney;



         (e)   The construction plans for proposed structures
have been approved by the Building Inspector;



         (f)   The final plat (if necessary) has been approved by
the city and recorded with appropriate governmental agency as required by
law. These recorded plats shall contain a statement indicating that the plan
is a part of planned development for the city; and



         (g)   The detailed site development plans have been
approved by all appropriate city staff members and the City Council and their
signatures appear on the plans.



   (L)   Project abandonment.



      (1)   In the event that a development plan is given final
approval and the developer subsequently abandons the project or if the
developer fails to begin the project within 18 months after final approval
has been granted, final approval shall be rescinded unless that time period
is extended by the City Council upon written application of the developer.



      (2)   After final approval, no planned development shall be
amended, except by the City Council after a public hearing before the
Planning Commission, in accordance with the provisions of § 154.171 of this
chapter; provided, however, that, the approved development schedule of the
plan may be extended for no more than two years by the City Council without
any hearing or Planning Commission action.



      (3)   The City Council reserves the right to withhold building
permits in the event that the developer is not making satisfactory progress
toward completion of the development plan.



(2004 Code, § 154.070)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.071  GT, GATEWAY DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose.



      (1)   The GT or Gateway District regulations are designed and
intended to promote commercial development along major thoroughfares which
are characterized by high quality permanent construction, strong economic
viability and a pleasing aesthetic appearance. The intent of these
regulations is to improve the appearance of the entry points to the city in
order to create a memorable and positive first impression on visitors to the
city. The development of high quality commercial construction in the gateway
areas of the city will establish the character and quality of the entire
community. This section is based upon the 2001/2002 Comprehensive Plan Update.



      (2)   Any building or structure within the gateway district
shall be designed to promote the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties and
be architecturally harmonious with the adjacent properties.



   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted, as regulated
herein, without special application requirements or conditions attached.
Highly similar uses not listed may be allowed upon the determination of the
City Council.



      (1)   Business and professional offices, including corporate
headquarters;



      (2)   Financial institutions (without drive-throughs);



      (3)   General retail sales;



      (4)   Hotels and motels;



      (5)   Restaurants and other eating and drinking
establishments; and



      (6)   Personal and business services, including, but not
limited to, catering offices (without food served on-site), chiropractic
offices, employment agencies, health and wellness services, interior
decorating services, medical care, printing, real estate offices and dry
cleaning/tailors.



   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are conditionally
permitted in the GT Gateway District. Every use, unless expressly exempt,
must follow the review procedures for and qualify for a conditional use
permit:



      (1)   Automobile service stations, including gas stations, gas
stations with auto repair and car washes;



      (2)   Drive-through facilities, including, but not limited to,
financial institutions, convenience food; drug stores; coffee shops;



      (3)   Boat and motorcycle sales and service (new and used),
limited to showrooms only, with no outdoor sales display areas and no
wrecking or dismantling;



      (4)   Bowling alleys and billiard parlors;



      (5)   Catalog and mail order services;



      (6)   Entertainment facilities, including, but not limited to,
game and amusement arcades, bowling, community convention centers/meeting
halls, cultural facilities, clubs and lodges, and theaters, but not including
sexually-oriented businesses;



      (7)   Convenience stores;



      (8)   Mortuaries/funeral homes;



      (9)   Tire sales and automotive supply stores;



      (10)   Parking structures or garages in conjunction with a
principal use; and



      (11)   Other commercial uses determined by the City Council to
be of the same general character as the conditional uses above, and found not
to be detrimental to existing uses and to the general public health, safety
and welfare.



   (D)   Municipal services required. Their inclusion in division (C)
above notwithstanding, the following uses shall not be approved on any lot if
municipal sanitary sewer service and municipal water service are not
available to the lot:



      (1)   Any use which uses more than 300 gallons of water per
day;



      (2)   Any use which requires pretreatment to improve the
quality of its wastewater prior to disposal in accordance with state or
municipal regulations;



      (3)   Automobile service stations and car washes;



      (4)   Clubs and lodges;



      (5)   Convenience stores;



      (6)   Hotels and motels;



      (7)   Meeting halls;



      (8)   Restaurants and other eating and drinking
establishments; and



      (9)   Theaters.



   (E)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area in the GT Gateway
District is 10,000 square feet.



   (F)   Minimum street frontage. The minimum street frontage in the GT
Gateway District is 150 feet.



   (G)   Yards and setbacks. The yard and setback requirements for the
GT Gateway District are measured from the public right-of-way to any
structural improvement on the lot.



      (1)   Front yard setback. There shall be provided a minimum
30-foot front yard setback from all rights-of-way.



      (2)   Side yard setback. There shall be provided a ten-foot
side yard setback to an impervious parking or storage or other ground level
surface and a six-foot setback to any portion of a building. On corner lots,
the side yard setback along the secondary street frontage shall be 20 feet.



      (3)   Rear yard setback. There shall be provided a ten-foot
rear yard setback to an impervious parking or storage or other ground level
surface and six feet to any portion of a building.



      (4)   Transitional yard. A transitional yard shall be provided
anywhere a GT Gateway District abuts a residential district. The site plan
shall provide a buffer between the two districts and shall conform to the
following requirements:



         (a)   The dimensions of the required transitional yard
on the property located in the GT District shall be equal to the dimensions
of the required yard on the residentially zoned property which is located in
closest proximity;



         (b)   The transitional yard shall extend the entire
length of the abutting residential district boundary;



         (c)   The transitional yard shall not be required to be
more than 20 feet in depth; and



         (d)   The transitional yard shall be landscaped.



      (5)   Parking placement; display. Only one row of parking is
allowed between the primary street (Highway 7) and the building(s). Display
areas may be in these yards with site plan approval.



   (H)   Maximum ground coverage. The sum total of ground area that may
be covered by all structures located on any lot in the GT Gateway District
shall not exceed 75% of the lot area.



   (I)   Building design and construction. Standards to promote
high-quality building materials, traditional facade features and appropriate
design features are imperative for this district. All buildings and
structures in the GT Gateway District shall meet the following building
design and construction standards.



      (1)   Exterior wall finish. All exterior wall finishes on any
building or structure shall be of the following materials, or a combination
of the following materials:



         (a)   Face brick;



         (b)   Natural stone;



         (c)   Pre-cast concrete panels or units, the surfaces of
which have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or
texture (no raked or ribbed textures);



         (d)   Stucco;



         (e)   Wood, consisting of horizontal lap siding with an
exposure no greater than five inches or wood shakes; surfaces must be painted;



         (f)   Decorative block; or



         (g)   Any similar material which meets the purposes for
which these regulations are designed and intended, as described in division
(A) above, and approved by the Planning Commission and City Council. A
request for this approval shall include:



            1.   A written description of the manner in which
the proposed material promotes the purposes described in division (A) above;



            2.   A physical sample of all the proposed
materials together with their technical specifications;



            3.   A color photograph of similar applications of
the proposed material;



            4.   A sketch of the proposed construction showing
the location of the proposed material; and



            5.   A written description explaining why approved
materials described in divisions (I)(1)(a) through (I)(1)(e) above are not
being considered.



      (2)   Additions and accessory buildings. All subsequent
additions to a principal building and all accessory buildings and structures
shall be constructed of the same materials as the principal building and
shall be of the same architectural design and general appearance as the
principal building.



      (3)   Design features. For the purpose of carrying out the
design and construction standards of the Gateway District, construction
should accomplish the following:



         (a)   Avoid conformity of roof forms and store modules;



         (b)   Treat all sides of a building with facie which is
consistent. If the applicant is proposing different facie on sides of
building, he or she must gain approval through the conditional use permit
process;



         (c)   Create architectural focal features;



         (d)   Define the edges of the gateway corridors with
buildings and landscaping; and



         (e)   Link all developments with sidewalks and
landscaped boulevards.



   (J)   Maximum building height. The maximum height of any
construction element shall be established under the conditional use permit.



   (K)   Outdoor storage prohibited. No owner or occupier of land in
the gateway district shall store or permit the storage of any personal
property, including, without limitation, commercial products, equipment
(excluding delivery vehicles), junk material or any other item, unless that
personal property is enclosed within a building or concealed within an opaque
fence which has been approved by the city as a condition of a conditional use
permit. All storage fences shall meet the construction requirements of
division (L)(10) below.



   (L)   Landscaping.



      (1)   General landscaping and maintenance requirements.



         (a)   All undeveloped lots and parcels shall be mowed
and kept free of accumulation of garbage, trash, refuse, debris and other
unsightly or nuisance creating materials until developed. Except for
accessory uses expressly permitted to be located in required yards, all yards
and open spaces between and about structures and off-street parking lots and
loading areas shall be landscaped and kept free from accumulations of
garbage, trash, refuse, debris and other unsightly or nuisance creating
materials. All landscaping shall be continually maintained by the owner or
other person responsible for maintenance of the premises, and all planting
areas shall be kept free of weeds and debris. All lots shall be maintained in
accordance with §§ 92.035 through 92.043 of this code.



         (b)   All planting material shall be of good quality, of
species normally grown in the state and capable of withstanding the extremes
of individual site microclimates. All specifications for measurement, quality
and installation of trees and shrubs shall be in accordance with the American
Standards for Nursery Stock, published by the American Association of
Nurserymen.



         (c)   Landscaping and screening required by this section
shall be interrupted only by required access drives and sidewalks. All
landscaping and screening required by this section shall be so designed and
maintained as to preserve unobstructed vision of the street and sidewalk at
points of access and so as not to interfere with, or be damaged by, work
within any public or utility easement unless the Planning Department
determines that no other location is reasonably feasible.



         (d)   The standards included in this division (L) are
intended to promote common landscaping features and materials throughout the
GT Gateway District.



      (2)   Applicability. A landscaping plan, and the
implementation and maintenance of that plan, shall be required for all uses
within this district. Diversion from the standards set forth must be approved
at the time of conditional use permit and must be reviewed for
recommendations by the City Forester.



      (3)   Landscape plans. Wherever the submission and approval of
a landscape plan is required by this section, the landscape plan and its
maintenance shall be a condition of receiving a certificate of occupancy. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued prior to city approval of a
landscape plan. Failure to implement the approved landscape plan within six
months of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be cause for
revocation of the certificate of occupancy, and other enforcement procedures
of this zoning chapter.



         (a)   Content of landscape plan. All landscape plans
submitted for approval shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information:



            1.   The location and dimensions of all existing
and proposed structures, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights-of-way,
sidewalks, bicycle paths, ground signs, refuse disposal areas, bicycle
parking areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, tot lots and other
recreational facilities, and other freestanding structural features as
determined necessary by the Planning Department;



            2.   The location, quantity, size and name, both
botanical and common names, of all proposed planting materials;



            3.   The location of existing buildings,
structures and plant materials on adjacent property within 100 feet of the
site;



            4.   Existing and proposed grading of the site,
including proposed berming, indicating contours, at two-foot intervals;



            5.   Specification of the type and boundaries of
all proposed ground cover;



            6.   Elevations of all fences proposed for
location on the site. The information must also include the design aspects of
the fencing;



            7.   Irrigation plan (if installing); and



            8.   Elevations, cross-sections and other details
as determined necessary by the Planning Department.



         (b)   Design criteria. Landscaping plans described above
shall be prepared based on the following design criteria. The evaluation and
approval of landscape plans shall also be based on these design criteria.



            1.   Scale and nature of landscaping material. The
scale and nature of landscaping materials should be appropriate to the size
of the structures. Large scaled buildings, for example, should generally be
complemented by larger scaled plants. Landscaping of larger areas, such as
required yards, should be accomplished by both horizontal landscaping
elements, such as planting beds, and vertical landscaping elements, such as
trees, berms and fences.



            2.   Selection of plant material. Plant material
should be selected for its form, texture, color and concern for its ultimate
growth. The use of Silver Maples, Box Elders, Russian Olives, Tree of Heaven,
Mulberry, Poplars and other weak wooded species should be avoided.



            3.   Evergreens. Evergreens should be incorporated
into the landscape treatment of a site, particularly in those areas screening
parking lots from dedicated public rights-of-way or property zoned for
residential use. All evergreens shall have a minimum height of six feet.



            4.   Shade trees. All shade trees shall have a
minimum trunk size of two inches in diameter upon installation, as measured
six inches above the established ground level.



            5.   Softening of walls and fences. Plant material
should be placed intermittently against long expanses of building walls,
fences and other barriers to create a softening effect.



            6.   Planting bed. Planting beds should be mulched
with bark chips, rock mulch, feather rocks or similar materials.



            7.   Detention/retention basins and ponds.
Detention/retention basins and ponds shall be landscaped. This landscaping
should include shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and
other planting materials.



            8.   Watering plant material. A means of watering
plant material should be provided. Installation of an underground irrigation
system is recommended.



            9.   Energy conservation.



               a.   Deciduous trees should be placed on the
south and west sides of buildings and parking lots to provide shade from the
summer sun.



               b.   Evergreens and other similar plant
materials should be concentrated on the north side of buildings to dissipate
the effect of winter winds.



            10.   Preservation of existing plant material.
Existing plant material should, wherever practical as determined by the
Planning Department, be incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site.



            11.   Berming. Earthen berms and existing
topography should be, whenever determined practical by the Planning
Department, incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site, particularly
when combined with plant material to facilitate screening from adjacent
residential uses. Berms should be designed to allow for maintenance, mowing
and adequate drainage. The elevation and horizontal ground location of the
berm should be varied in order to mimic a natural topographical feature.



            12.   Fencing and walls. Fencing and walls shall
conform to the restrictions of this section. When fencing is used to screen
uses, the outside base of the fence and wall shall be landscaped. The fences
or walls shall incorporate piers built of the same brick, concrete or stone
used in the building facade.



      (4)   Transitional yards. Except as expressly provided
elsewhere in this section, every transitional yard shall extend along the
entire length of the lot line and shall be designed and maintained to
function as a buffer area. Every required transitional yard shall consist of
a combination of ground cover, shade trees, evergreen trees and shrubs and
appropriate screening devices such as decorative walls, fences or berms.
Areas not planted with shrubs, trees or other appropriate screening devices
shall be maintained with living ground cover.



      (5)   Perimeter landscaping; off-street parking lots. Parking
lots fronting on principal streets in the GT District shall have a 15-foot
setback and a two feet, six inches high landscape buffer. Acceptable
materials include:



         (a)   Overstory or ornamental trees spaced at a maximum
of 25 feet apart with a hedge, railing or wall in between. Walls and railing
piers shall be built out of brick or stone to match the principal building;
and



         (b)   A berm landscaped with shrubs, ornamental,
evergreen and/or overstory trees.



      (6)   Interior landscaping; off-street parking lots. Every
off-street parking lot in the GT district providing 25 spaces or more shall
provide interior landscaping. Interior landscaping shall consist of planting
islands with a minimum area of 60 square feet and a minimum width of six
feet, measured from the back of curb to back of curb. Parking lot interiors
shall have 150 square feet of landscape islands per 25 parking spaces. Area
devoted to perimeter landscaping shall not be considered as any part of
interior landscaping. Where more than one planting island is provided, the
islands shall be appropriately spaced throughout the parking lot. As part of
site plan review, interior landscaping may be required for off-street parking
lots containing less than 25 spaces.



      (7)   Off-street loading areas. Every off-street loading area
visible from any lot zoned for residential use shall be screened on all sides
visible from that lot or street by an opaque fence, wall or densely planted
evergreen hedge of not less than six feet in height, except as necessary for
access.



      (8)   Refuse containers. All refuse and recyclable material
containers, except those containers used by a single-family dwelling in
connection with the municipal refuse collection service or those containers
used on a temporary basis for a construction or disposal activity, shall be
fully enclosed by a gated opaque fence or wall of a sufficient height to
completely screen the containers from view by all adjoining properties and
all streets. The fence or wall shall have an exterior finish that is similar
to the material found on the exterior walls of the main building on the
property or other approved material as determined by the Planning Department.
No refuse or recyclable material containers shall be located between any
front or corner side yard.



      (9)   Rooftop mechanical equipment. Except for roof-mounted
antennas, all mechanical equipment located on the roof of any building
constructed after the effective date of this chapter and exceeding six feet
in height shall be completely screened to the full height of the equipment by
a parapet wall or other screening structure constructed of the same or
similar materials as the principal building facade.



      (10)   Fences. No fence or wall shall be erected, enlarged,
expanded, altered, relocated, maintained or repaired in any yard unless it
shall first meet the requirements of this section.



         (a)   Construction.



            1.   Prohibited material. No fence or wall shall
be constructed of any electrically charged element or barbed wire, when
incorporated with a permitted fence or wall. Opaque (100%), plastic colored
and coated chain link fencing will be considered with a conditional use
permit and will be evaluated on its location and extent of usage.



            2.   Approved material. All fences shall be
constructed of stone, brick, ornamental steel and/or finished wood. The
finished side of the fence, or that side of the fence without exposed
supports or posts, shall face the neighboring properties or streets.



            3.   Maintenance. Every fence or wall shall be
maintained in a good and safe condition at all times. Every damaged or
missing element of any fence or wall shall be repaired or replaced
immediately.



         (b)   Height.



            1.   Side and rear yards. No fence or wall located
in a side or rear yard shall be of a height exceeding ten feet, measured from
its top edge to the ground at any point. Fencing exceeding six feet requires
building permit plan review.



            2.   Front yards. No fence or wall located in a
front yard shall be of a height exceeding four feet, measured from its top
edge to the ground at any point.



         (c)   Setbacks.



            1.   A fence may be located adjacent to, but may
not be located on a property line.



            2.   No fence, wall, hedge or other screening
device shall be permitted to encroach on any public right-of-way.



   (M)   Lighting. Lighting shall not be directed upon the public
right-of-way and nearby or adjacent properties. The illumination must be
indirect or diffused. Exterior lighting standards shall be compatible with
the style of the existing street lights and the surrounding area (TH7 and 22).



   (N)   Signage. This division is intended to provide standards for
signage within the GT Gateway District. The promotion of these standards in
the gateway district will serve as a positive example for the rest of the
community to strive toward.



      (1)   Permitted signs; standards. The following signs are
permitted in the GT District:



         (a)   Wall or ground signs identifying the name or type
of business;



         (b)   Parking signs;



         (c)   The total area of all signs shall not exceed three
square feet per front foot of building. Lots on intersecting streets or
facing two parallel streets shall be permitted 150% of the total allowable
sign area, with no more than 100% on any one street;



         (d)   Maximum height of a ground sign shall not exceed
27 feet;



         (e)   Wall signs shall not project in excess of 12
inches or above the roof line;



         (f)   Roof signs, excluding advertising signs, not
exceeding 15 feet in height;



         (g)   Projecting signs, provided that there shall be not
more than one of this type of sign, which shall project not more than six
feet from the face of the building and shall have a minimum underside
clearance of at least 14 feet;



         (h)   No more than four signs shall be permitted, not
more than two being ground signs;



         (i)   Ground signs shall be set back a minimum of five
feet from lot lines; and



         (j)   Monument signs, subject to the following
requirements:



            1.   Single or double occupancy business signs
shall not exceed 10% of the total front building facade; except that, both
front and side facades may be counted on a corner lot. Sign area may not
exceed 100 square feet with a maximum height of 20 feet. Monument signs may
not exceed ten feet in height;



            2.   Monument signs for multi-tenant businesses
may not exceed 150 square feet, with a maximum height of 30 feet;



            3.   Monument signs may not exceed more than 20
feet;



            4.   One monument sign per single and double
occupancy building is allowed;



            5.   One monument sign per street frontage is
allowed for multi-tenant buildings; and



            6.   Special landscaping features that integrate
with monument signs are required.



      (2)   Prohibited signs. This division (N)(2) prohibits signs
which have been identified as unattractive and unnecessary. The following
signs are prohibited in the GT District:



         (a)   Off-premises signs;



         (b)   Portable signs; and



         (c)   Billboards.



(2004 Code, § 154.071)  (Ord. 01-304, passed 3-26-2002; Ord. 09-0528,
passed 4-14-2009)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.072  MXD, MIXED USE DISTRICT.



   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Mixed Use District is to provide
areas that allow a mix of compatible uses, such as commercial, retail, office
and entertainment, with residential uses in locations with nearby amenities
for pedestrians. Mixed use areas shall be in conformance with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan and reserved for properties that have safe access for
pedestrians to sidewalks, trails, parks and natural resources and are free
from objectionable uses or hazards to pedestrians. This district does not
allow any uses that conflict with residential uses, such as industrial,
warehousing, storage or uses with heavy truck traffic or outdoor storage.



   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses are permitted
uses as regulated herein:



      (1)   Art galleries and studios;



      (2)   Clinics for human care including medical, dental and
wellness services, including chiropractic and therapeutic massage;



      (3)   Financial institutions, including banks, without drive
through facilities;



      (4)   General offices, including administrative, executive and
professional offices such as insurance agencies, interior decorating
services, real estate offices, travel agency and other similar offices
compatible with residential uses;



      (5)   Multiple use buildings, with a mixture of retail,
commercial and office uses, including multi-tenant buildings;



      (6)   Multi-family residential, including apartments, condo
buildings, townhouses, cooperatives and senior housing;



      (7)   Personal services, including, but not limited to,
salons, hairstylists, drycleaners/laundry (excluding processing),
tailor/alterations and athletic/fitness facilities of less than 5,000 square
feet;



      (8)   Restaurants, cafés, delis and bakeries without drive
through facilities;



      (9)   Retail stores and shops (less than 5,000 square feet),
including, but not limited to, antique stores, drugstores, florists, hardware
stores, gift shops, grocery, convenience store without gas sales, clothing
stores; and



      (10)   Public facilities and services, including post offices,
public buildings and parks and playgrounds.



   (C)   Conditional uses, as regulated by § 154.170 of this chapter
and subject to the applicable requirements.



      (1)   Educational facilities, including art schools, daycare,
K-12 schools, trade schools, college, universities and business training
facilities;



      (2)   Entertainment facilities, including commercial
recreation, bowling, community centers, cultural facilities, clubs and
lodges, theaters and performing arts facilities; and



      (3)   Financial institutions, with drive through facilities.



   (D)   Accessory uses. Allowable accessory uses include any structure
normally associated with the permitted principal or conditional uses:



      (1)   Information kiosks;



      (2)   Outdoor dining areas;



      (3)   Interior cafeterias, community rooms and recreation
areas for permitted multi-family residential uses;



      (4)   Streetscape furniture and lighting;



      (5)   Parking lots, surface or underground;



      (6)   Bicycle and transit shelters;



      (7)   Commercial overnight delivery drop box; and



      (8)   Accessory uses which are customarily incidental and
clearly subordinate to permitted and conditional uses.



   (E)   Dimensional requirements; MXD District.



      (1)   Setbacks.



 


Setback From

 

Building Setback

 

Accessory Building Setback

 

Parking Lot or Circulation Drive



Corner side lot line
 

20

 

20

 

10



Front lot line
 

10 feet

 

Not permitted in front yard

 

20 feet



Interior side lot line
 

20 feet (or the height of the building, whichever is greater)

 

10

 

10



Rear lot line
 

30

 

20

 

10



Residential Zoning Boundary
 

30

 

20

 

15




 



      (2)   Lot area dimension requirements.



         (a)   Lot area: one acre minimum;



         (b)   Lot width: 150 feet minimum; and



         (c)   Lot depth: the depth of any lot in a subdivision
shall not exceed three times the lot’s width.



      (3)   Maximum building height.



         (a)   Principal structure: 60 feet; and



         (b)   Accessory structure: 30 feet.



      (4)   Maximum building coverage. 30%.



   (F)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage shall be prohibited in the
Mixed Use District.



   (G)   Other requirements. Refer to development standards in §§
154.110 through 154.144 of this chapter, regarding specific development
standards, for regulations including:



      (1)   Site plan review;



      (2)   Access, parking and loading;



      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;



      (4)   Fences; and



      (5)   Signs.



(2004 Code, § 154.072)  (Ord. 08-0507, passed 7-22-2008)




FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT




§ 154.085  STATUTORY AUTHORITY; PURPOSE.



   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of
Minnesota has, in M.S. Ch. 103F and Ch. 462, as they may be amended from time
to time, delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council
does ordain as follows.



   (B)   Purpose.



      (1)   Regulates development. This subchapter regulates
development in the flood hazard areas of the city. These flood hazard areas
are subject to periodic inundation, which may result in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose of this ordinance to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by minimizing these
losses and disruptions.



      (2)    National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This
subchapter is adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the
National Flood insurance Program codified as 44 C. F. R. Parts 59 —78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community's eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.



      (3)   Preservation. This subchapter is also intended to
preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses and
floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water
quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide
recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community
and economic development.



(2004 Code, § 154.085)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-223, passed
5-12-1998; Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.086  GENERAL PROVISIONS.



   (A)   How to use this subchapter. This subchapter adopts the
floodplain maps applicable to the city and includes three floodplain
districts: Floodway, Floodway Fringe, and General Floodplain.



      (1)   Where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are delineated
on the floodplain maps, the standards in §§ 154.089 or 154.090 will apply,
depending on the location of a property.



      (2)   Locations where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are
not delineated on the floodplain maps are considered to fall within the
General Floodplain District. Within the General Floodplain District, the
Floodway District standards in § 154.089 apply unless the floodway boundary
is determined, according to the process outlined in § 154.091. Once the
floodway boundary is determined, the Flood Fringe District standards in §
154.090 may apply outside the floodway.



   (B)   Lands to which subchapter applies.



      (1)   This subchapter applies to all lands within the
jurisdiction of the city Shown on the official zoning map and/or the
attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the Floodway,
Flood Fringe, or General Floodplain Districts.



      (2)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain
Districts are overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning
districts. The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to
any other requirements in this subchapter. In case of a conflict, the more
restrictive standards will apply.



   (C)   Incorporation of maps by reference. The following maps
together with all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of the official zoning map and this subchapter. The
attached material includes the Flood Insurance Study for McLeod County,
Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas, dated 7-7-2014 and the Flood Insurance
Rate Map panels for McLeod County enumerated below, dated 7-7-2014, all
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. These materials are on
file in the Planning Department at Hutchinson City Center.



 


Panel Numbers






27085C0017E




27085C0018E




27085C0019E




27085C0038E




27085C0050E




27085C0106E




27085C0125E




27085C0126E




27085C0150E





 



   (D)   Regulatory flood protection elevation. The regulatory flood
protection elevation (RFPE) is an elevation no lower than one foot above the
elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused
by encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.



   (E)   Interpretation. The boundaries of the zoning districts are
determined by scaling distances on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.



      (1)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits
illustrated on the official zoning map and actual field conditions, the flood
elevations shall be the governing factor. The Zoning Administrator must
interpret the boundary location based on the ground elevations that existed
on the site on the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map
showing the area within the regulatory floodplain, and other available
technical data.



      (2)   Persons contesting the location of the district
boundaries will be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to
the Planning Commission and City Council and to submit technical evidence.



   (F)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This subchapter does not
imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted
within such districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
subchapter does not create liability on the part of the city or its officers
or employees for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.



   (G)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by
reference into division (C) above may include floodplain areas that lie
outside of the corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of
this subchapter. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the
city after the date of adoption of this subchapter, the newly annexed
floodplain lands will be subject to the provisions of this subchapter
immediately upon the date of annexation.



(2004 Code, § 154.086)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 97-211, passed
10-14-1997; Ord. 98-223, passed 5-12-1998; Ord. 03-335, passed 3-11-2003;
Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.087  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE.  A use or structure on the same lot with,
and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use
or structure.



   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.  The elevation of the “regional flood.” The
term “base flood elevation” is used in the flood insurance survey.



   BASEMENT.  Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of excavation below ground level.



   CONDITIONAL USE.  A specific type of structure or land use listed in
the official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:



      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance
exist.



      (2)   The structure and/or land use conform to the
comprehensive land use plan if one exists and are compatible with the
existing neighborhood.



   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.



   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT.  A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.



   FARM FENCE.  A fence as defined by M.S. § 344.02, Subd. l(a)-(d), as
it may be amended from time to time. An open type fence of posts and wire is
not considered to be a structure under this subchapter. Fences that have the
potential to obstruct flood flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls,
are regulated as structures under this subchapter.



   FLOOD.  A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in
the stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.



   FLOOD FREQUENCY.  The frequency for which it is expected that a
specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.



   FLOOD FRINGE.  That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term “floodway fringe” used in the
Flood Insurance Study for McLeod County, Minnesota.



   FLOOD PRONE AREA Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source. (See FLOOD).



   FLOODPLAIN.  The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake
or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional
flood.



   FLOODPROOFING.  A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for
the reduction or elimination of flood damages.



   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required
to carry or store the regional flood discharge.



   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor.



   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with
or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities.
The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term “recreational
vehicle.”



   OBSTRUCTION.  Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across,
or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which
may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in
itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.



   PRINCIPAL USE or STRUCTURE.  All uses or structures that are not
accessory uses or structures.



   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN. Lands inundated by the “Regional
Flood.” (See definition).



   REACH.  A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal
segment of a stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction.
In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings would most typically constitute a reach.



   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck, and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
For the purposes of this subchapter, the term recreational vehicle is
synonymous with the term “travel trailer/travel vehicle.”



   REGIONAL FLOOD.  A flood which is representative of large floods known
to have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what
can be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 1%
chance or 100-year recurrence interval. Regional flood is synonymous with the
term “base flood” used in a flood insurance study.



   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE).  An elevation not less
than one foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.



   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood related damages sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.



   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with “one hundred year floodplain.”



   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached
to the ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in § 154.094(C)(1) of
this subchapter and other similar items.



   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.



   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT   Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before
the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes
structures that have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:



      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.



      (2)   Any alteration of an “historic structure,” provided
that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation
as an “historic structure.” For the purpose of this subchapter HISTORIC
STRUCTURE is as defined in 44 C.F.R. Part 59.1.



(Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.088  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.



   (A)   Districts.



      (1)   Floodway District. The Floodway District includes those
areas designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
154.086(C). For lakes, wetlands and other basins, the Floodway District
includes those areas designated as Zone AE (that do not have a floodway
designated) on the flood insurance rate map panels adopted in § 154.086(C)
that are at or below the ordinary high water level as defined in M.S. §
103G.005, Subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time.



      (2)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District
includes those areas designated as floodway fringe on the flood insurance
rate map adopted in § 154.086(C), as being within Zone AE but being located
outside of the floodway. For lakes, wetlands and other basins (that do not
have a floodway designated), the Flood Fringe District includes those areas
designated as Zone AE on the flood insurance rate map panels adopted in §
154.086(C) that are below the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood elevation but
above the ordinary high water level as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd.
14., as it may be amended from time to time



      (3)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain
District includes those areas designated as Zone A or Zones AE without a
floodway on the flood insurance rate map panels adopted in § 154.086(C), but
not subject to the criteria in divisions (A) and (B) above.



   (B)   Compliance.



      (1)   Within the floodplain districts established in this
subchapter, the use of any land, the use, size, type and location of
structures on lots, the installation and maintenance of transportation,
utility, water supply and waste treatment facilities, and the subdivision of
land must comply with the terms of this subchapter and other applicable
regulations. All uses not listed as permitted uses or conditional uses in
Sections 4.0, 5.0 and 6.0, respectively, are prohibited.



      (2)   In addition, a caution is provided here that:



         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes and certain
recreational vehicles are subject to the general provisions of this
subchapter and specifically § 154.094.



         (b)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations,
normal maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing
nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are
regulated by the general provisions of this subchapter and specifically §
154.096.



         (c)   As-built elevations for elevated or floodproofed
structures must be certified by ground surveys and flood-proofing techniques
must be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as specified in the general provisions of this ordinance and
specifically as stated in § 154.095.



(2004 Code, § 154.087)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-223, passed
5-12-1998; Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.089  FW, FLOODWAY DISTRICT.



   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards
set forth in division (B) below, are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in
the underlying zoning district or any applicable overlay district:



      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop
harvesting.



      (2)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and
airport landing strips.



      (3)   Open space uses, including but not limited to private
and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges,
picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and
nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting
and fishing areas, and single or multiple purpose recreational trails.



      (4)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.



      (5)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines
and pipelines, provided that the Department of Natural Resources' Area
Hydrologist is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit,
and that the standards in division (D)(1), (3)(a) and (6), below, are met.



   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.



      (1)   The use must have a low flood damage potential.



      (2)   With the exception of the uses listed in division
(A)(5), the use must not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and must not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage
of materials or equipment.



      (3)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the
general public must be designed with a flood warning system that provides
adequate time for evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity
such that the depth (in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second)
would exceed a product of four upon occurrence of the regional 1% chance
flood.



   (C)   Conditional uses.



The following uses may be allowed as conditional uses following the standards
and procedures set forth in § 154.095(D) of this subchapter and further
subject to the standards set forth in division (D) below, if otherwise
allowed in the underlying zoning district or any applicable overlay district.



      (1)    Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (A)
above and the uses listed in division(C)(2) through (7) below.



      (2)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other
materials.



      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves, and water
control structures.



      (4)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.



      (5)   Placement of fill or construction of fences that
obstruct flood flows. Farm fences, as defined in § 154.087, are permitted
uses.



      (6)   Travel-ready recreational vehicles meeting the exception
standards in § 154.094(C).



      (7)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops
for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.



   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.



      (1)   All uses. A conditional use must not cause any increase
in the stage of the 1% chance or regional flood or cause an increase in flood
damages in the reach or reaches affected.



      (2)   Fill; storage of materials and equipment.



         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are,
in time of flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human,
animal, or plant life is prohibited.



         (b)   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials
deposited or stored in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by
vegetative cover, mulching, riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand
and gravel operations and similar uses must be covered by a long-term site
development plan.



         (c)   Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or
equipment which would cause an increase to the stage of the 1%chance or
regional flood may only be allowed if the City Council has approved a plan
that assures removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood
warning time available.



      (3)   Accessory structures.



         (a)   Accessory structures must not be designed for
human habitation.



         (b)   Accessory structures, if permitted, must be
constructed and placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of flood waters:



            1.   Whenever possible, structures must be
constructed with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood
flow; and



            2.   So far as practicable, structures must be
placed approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining
structures.



         (c)   Accessory structures must be elevated on fill or
structurally dry floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2
floodproofing classifications in the state building code. All floodproofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards:



            1.   The structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement and designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls; and



            2.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the
structure must be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation or properly floodproofed.



         (d)   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be
internally/wet floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 floodproofing classifications
in the state building code, provided the accessory structure constitutes a
minimal investment and does not exceed 576 square feet in size. A detached
garage may only be used for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All
structures must meet the following standards:



            1.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic
pressure, there must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the
outside walls of the structure, with a total net area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and



            2.   There must be openings on at least two sides
of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one
foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using human
intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy this
requirement for automatic openings.



      (4)   Structural works. Structural works for flood control
that will change the course, current or cross section of protected wetlands
or public waters are subject to the provisions of M.S. § 103G.245, as it may
be amended from time to time.



      (5)   Levees, dikes, or floodwalls. A levee, dike or floodwall
constructed in the floodway must not cause an increase to the 1% chance or
regional flood. The technical analysis must assume equal conveyance or
storage loss on both sides of a stream.



      (6)   Floodway developments must not adversely affect the
hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system.



(2004 Code, § 154.088)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-223, passed
5-12-1998; Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.090  FF, FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT.



   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are those uses of land or
structures allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the
standards in division (B). If no pre-existing, underlying zoning districts
exist, then any residential or nonresidential structure or use of a structure
or land is a permitted use provided it does not constitute a public nuisance.



   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.



      (1)   (a)   All structures, including accessory structures,
must be elevated on fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above
the regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures must be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill must extend at the same elevation at least
15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.



         (b)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, an
accessory structure that constitutes a minimal investment and that does not
exceed 576 square feet in size may be internally floodproofed in accordance
with § 154.089.



      (2)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on
a parcel must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically
intended to elevate a structure in accordance with division (B)(1) above, or
if allowed as a conditional use under division (C)(3) below.



      (3)   The storage of any materials or equipment must be
elevated on fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.



      (4)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time
of flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal,
or plant life is prohibited.



      (5)   Fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method.



      (6)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access
at or above an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood
protection elevation, or must have a flood warning /emergency evacuation plan
acceptable to the City Council.



      (7)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and
parking lots may be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, any facilities used by employees or the
general public must be designed with a flood warning system that provides
adequate time for evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity
such that the depth (in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second)
would exceed a product of four upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance)
flood.



      (8)   Interference with normal manufacturing/industrial plant
operations must be minimized, especially along streams having protracted
flood durations. In considering permit applications, due consideration must
be given to the needs of industries with operations that require a floodplain
location.



      (9)   Flood fringe developments must not adversely affect the
hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system.



      (10)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet
the standards of § 154.094.



   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses and activities may be
allowed as conditional uses, if allowed in the underlying zoning district(s)
or any applicable overlay district, following the procedures in § 154.095(D)
below. Conditional uses must meet the standards in divisions (B)(4) through
(B)(10) above,  and division (D) below.



      (1)   Any structure that is not elevated on fill or
floodproofed in accordance with division (B)(1) above.



      (2)   Storage of any material or equipment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.



      (3)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards
of fill when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance
with division (B)(1) above.



   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.



      (1)   The standards listed in divisions (B)(4) to (B)(10)
above apply to all conditional uses.



      (2)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill
may be utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of
stilts, pilings, parallel walls, etc., or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck-under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area is
considered above-grade and not a structure's basement or lowest floor if: 1)
the enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the structure; 2) it
is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood resistant
materials; and 3) it is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access
or storage. These alternative elevation methods are subject to the following
additional standards:



         (a)   Design and certification.  The structure's design
and as-built condition must be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect as being in compliance with the general design
standards of the state building code and, specifically, that all electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment, including
ductwork, and other service facilities are placed at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation or are designed to prevent flood water from
entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.



         (b)   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed
areas.  Above-grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under
garages must be designed to internally flood. The design plans must stipulate:



            1.   A minimum area of openings in the walls where
internal flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There must be a
minimum of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom
of all openings must be a maximum of one foot above grade. The automatic
openings must have a net area of at least one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters without any form of human intervention; and



            2.   That the enclosed area will be designed of
flood resistant materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications
in the State Building Code and will be used solely for building access,
parking of vehicles, or storage.



      (3)   Basements, as defined by § 154.087 above, are subject
to the following:



         (a)   Residential basement construction is not allowed
below the regulatory flood protection elevation.



         (b)   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally
dry floodproofed in accordance with division (B)(4) below.



      (4)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including
basements, to be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must
be floodproofed in accordance with the structurally dry floodproofing
classifications in the State Building Code. Structurally dry floodproofing
must meet the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing classification in the State Building
Code, which requires making the structure watertight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy. Structures wet floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4
classification are not permitted.



      (5)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or
other similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.



         (a)   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used
to stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional
(1% chance) flood event.



         (b)   The plan must be prepared and certified by a
registered professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to
the City Council.



         (c)   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures
for removal of the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning
time exists.



      (6)   Storage of materials and equipment below the regulatory
flood protection elevation must comply with an approved emergency plan
providing for removal of such materials within the time available after a
flood warning.



(2004 Code, § 154.089)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-223, passed
5-12-1998; Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.091 GF, GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.



   (A)   Permitted uses.



      (1)   The uses listed in § 154.089(A) above, Floodway
District permitted uses, are permitted uses.



      (2)   All other uses are subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria specified in division (B) below. Section 154.089 applies
if the proposed use is determined to be in the Floodway



District. Section 154.090 applies if the proposed use is determined to be in
the Flood Fringe District.



   (B)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations.



      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other
approval within the General Floodplain District, the Zoning Administrator
must obtain, review and reasonably utilize any regional flood elevation and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source.



      (2)   If regional flood elevation and floodway data are not
readily available, the applicant must furnish additional information, as
needed, to determine the regulatory flood protection elevation and whether
the proposed use would fall within the Floodway or Flood Fringe District.
Information must be consistent with accepted hydrological and hydraulic
engineering standards and the standards in division (B)(3) below.



      (3)   The determination of floodway and flood fringe must
include the following components, as applicable:



         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional (1%
chance) flood.



         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the
regional flood based upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and
overbank areas.



         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store
the regional flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A
lesser stage increase than one-half foot is required if, as a result of the
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach must be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.



      (4)   The Zoning Administrator will review the submitted
information and assess the technical evaluation and the recommended Floodway
and/or Flood Fringe District boundary. The assessment must include the
cumulative effects of previous floodway encroachments. The Zoning
Administrator may seek technical assistance from a designated engineer or
other expert person or agency, including the Department of Natural Resources,
Based on this assessment, the Zoning Administrator may approve or deny the
application.



      (5)   Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District Boundaries
have been determined, the Zoning Administrator must process the permit
application consistent with the applicable provisions of §§ 154.089 and
154.090 above.



(Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.092  LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.



   (A)   In general. Recognizing that flood prone areas may exist
outside of the designated floodplain districts, the requirements of this
section apply to all land within the city.



   (B)   Subdivisions. No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable
for reasons of flooding or inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage
treatment facilities. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks
or campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this subchapter.



      (1)   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to
contain a building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation.



      (2)   All subdivisions must have road access both to the
subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below
the regulatory flood protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency
plan for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional
(1% chance) flood has been approved by the City Council. The plan must be
prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, and must
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the
evacuation.



      (3)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and
Flood Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation
and the required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all
required subdivision drawings and platting documents.



      (4)   In the General Floodplain District, applicants must
provide the information required in § 154.091(B) to determine the regional
flood elevation, the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the
regulatory flood protection elevation for the subdivision site.



      (5)   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new
development is in a flood prone area, any such proposal must be reviewed to
assure that:



         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage within the flood prone area,



         (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage; and



         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure
of flood hazard.



   (C)   Building sites. If a proposed building site is in a flood
prone area, all new construction and substantial improvements (including the
placement of manufactured homes) must be:



      (1)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to
prevent floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;



      (2)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment
resistant to flood damage;



      (3)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage; and



      (4)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that
are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.



(Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.093  PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES.



   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as
gas, electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the
floodplain must be floodproofed in accordance with the state building code or
elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation.



   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges to be located within the floodplain must comply with §§ 154.089 and
154.090. These transportation facilities must be elevated to the regulatory
flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these facilities
would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such
facilities are essential! to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.



   (C)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems.



      (1)   Where public utilities are not provided:



         (a)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and



         (b)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment
systems must be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters and
they must not be subject to impairment or contamination during times of
flooding.



      (2)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with
the State's current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems
is considered to be in compliance with this Section.



(Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.094  MANUFACTURED HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS, AND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES.



   (A)   Manufactured homes. New manufactured home parks, expansions to
existing manufactured home parks, and new or replacement manufactured home
units on lots of record are prohibited in the Floodway District. If allowed
in the Flood Fringe District, these uses are subject to the requirements of
§ 154.090 and the following standards.



   (B)   Placement of manufactured homes. New and replacement
manufactured homes in the Flood Fringe District must comply with the
following standards:



      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated
in compliance with § 154.090 and must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.



      (2)   New or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for
subdivisions in § 154.092(B)(2).



   (C)   Recreational vehicles. Placement of recreational vehicles in
the floodplain must meet the exemption criteria below or be treated as new
structures meeting the requirements of this subchapter.



      (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter if they are placed in any of the following areas and meet the
criteria listed in division (C)(2) below:



         (a)   Individual lots or parcels of record.



         (b)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds.



         (c)   Existing condominium-type associations.



      (2)   Criteria for exempt recreational vehicles:



         (a)   The vehicle must have a current license required
for highway use.



         (b)   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on
wheels or the internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational
vehicle parks.



         (c)   No permanent structural type additions may be
attached to the vehicle.



         (d)   The vehicle and associated use must be permissible
in any pre-existing, underlying zoning district.



         (e)   Accessory structures are not permitted within the
Floodway District. Any accessory structure in the Flood Fringe District must
be constructed of flood-resistant materials and be securely anchored, meeting
the requirements applicable to manufactured homes in division (B)(2) above.



         (f)   An accessory structure must constitute a minimal
investment.



      (3)   Recreational vehicles that are exempt in division (C)(2)
above lose this exemption when development occurs on the site that exceeds a
minimal investment for an accessory structure such as a garage or storage
building. The recreational vehicle and all accessory structures will then be
treated as new structures subject to the elevation and floodproofing
requirements of § 154.090 above. No development or improvement on the parcel
or attachment to the recreational vehicle is allowed that would hinder the
removal of the vehicle should flooding occur.



      (4)   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds, subdivisions or condominium associations, and the expansion of
any similar existing use exceeding five units or dwelling sites may be
allowed subject to the following:



         (a)   On any new or replacement recreational vehicle
site in the Flood Fringe District, the recreational vehicle and its contents
must be placed on fill at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
and adequate road access to the site must be provided in accordance with §
154.092(B)(2).



         (b)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle site
located in the Floodway District or as an alternative to division (C)(4)(a)
above in the Flood Fringe District, may be allowed as a conditional use in
accordance with the following provisions and the provisions of § 154.095(D).



            1.   The applicant must submit an emergency plan
for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people acceptable to the City
Council as specified in § 154.092(B)(2). The plan must demonstrate that
adequate time and personnel exist to carry out an evacuation, and that the
exemption provisions of division (C)(1) above will be met; and



            2.   All attendant sewage and water facilities for
new or replacement recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed so
as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance
with § 154.093(C).



            3.   Any fill placed in the floodway to meet the
requirements of this section must not increase the flood stage of the
regional (1% chance) flood.



(2004 Code, § 154.092)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-223, passed
5-12-1998; Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.095  ADMINISTRATION.



   (A)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the City Council must administer and enforce this subchapter.



   (B)   Permit requirements.



      (1)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the
Zoning Administrator prior to conducting the following activities:



         (a)   The erection, addition, modification,
rehabilitation, or alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof.
Normal maintenance and repair also requires a permit if such work, separately
or in conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a substantial
improvement as defined in this subchapter.



         (b)   The use or change of use of a building, structure,
or land.



         (c)   The construction of a dam, fence, or on-site
septic system, although a permit is not required for a farm fence as defined
in this subchapter.



         (d)   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.



         (e)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by
flood, fire, tornado, or any other source.



         (f)   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or
the storage of materials or equipment within the floodplain.



         (g)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse, unless
a public waters work permit has been applied for.



         (h)   Any other type of “development” as defined in
this subchapter.



      (2)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning
Administrator. The permit application must include the following as
applicable:



         (a)   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions,
existing or proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features
having an influence on the permit.



         (b)   Location of fill or storage of materials in
relation to the stream channel.



         (c)   Copies of any required municipal, county, state or
federal permits or approvals.



         (d)   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to property evaluate the permit application.



      (3)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this subchapter.



      (4)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
Floodproofing measures must be certified by a registered professional
engineer or registered architect.



      (5)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning
Administrator must maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new structures and alterations or additions to
existing structures in the floodplain, The Zoning Administrator must also
maintain a record of the elevation to which structures and alterations or
additions to structures are floodproofed.



      (6)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before
authorizing any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning
Administrator must notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied
for a permit to work in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as it may
be amended from time to time, this will suffice as adequate notice. A copy of
the notification must also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).



      (7)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or
decrease base flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than
six months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the
Zoning Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the
changes by submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.



      (8)   Variance applications. An application for a variance to
the provisions of this ordinance will be processed and reviewed in accordance
with applicable state statutes and § 154.172 of this chapter.



      (9)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A
variance must not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a
lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection
elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than those
required by state law.



      (10)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional
variance criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be
satisfied:



         (a)   Variances must not be issued by a community within
any designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the
base flood discharge would result.



         (b)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon
(i) a showing of good and sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure
to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant,
and (iii) a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.



         (c)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination
that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to
afford relief.



      (11)   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must
notify the applicant for a variance that: 1) The issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the base flood level will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of
insurance coverage; and 2) Such construction below the base or regional flood
level increases risks to life and property. Such notification must be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.



      (12)   General considerations. The community may consider the
following factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances
and conditional uses in floodplains:



         (a)   The potential danger to life and property due to
increased flood heights or velocities caused by encroachments;



         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other
lands or downstream to the injury of others;



         (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems,
if any, and the ability of these systems to minimize the potential for
disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;



         (d)   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual
owner;



         (e)   The importance of the services to be provided by
the proposed use to the community;



         (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront
location;



         (g)   The availability of viable alternative locations
for the proposed use that are not subject to flooding;



         (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with
existing development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;



         (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive land use plan and flood plain management program for the area;



         (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of
flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;



         (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of
rise and sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.



      (13)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR). The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices
for proposed variances to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least
ten-days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or
U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.



      (14)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all
decisions granting variances must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of
such action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.



      (15)   Record-keeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain
a record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance,
and must report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.



   (D)   Conditional uses.



      (1)   Administrative review. An application for a conditional
use permit under the provisions of this ordinance will be processed and
reviewed in accordance with § 154.170 of this chapter.



      (2)   Factors used in decision-making. In passing upon
conditional use applications, the City Council must consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this ordinance, and those factors
identified in division(C)(12) above.



      (3)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The City
Council may attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits
as it deems necessary to fulfil! the purposes of this subchapter. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:



         (a)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply
facilities.



         (b)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and
operation.



         (c)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and
deed restrictions.



         (d)   Requirements for construction of channel
modifications, compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective
measures.



         (e)   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the
state building code and this subchapter. The applicant must submit a plan or
document certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood
protection elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.



      (4)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR). The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices
for proposed conditional uses to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide
at least ten-days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.



      (5)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all
decisions granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the DNR within ten
days of such action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail
to the respective DNR area hydrologist.



(Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.096  NONCONFORMITIES; CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMITIES.



   A use, structure, or occupancy of land which was lawful before the
passage or amendment of this ordinance but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this subchapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions. Historic structures, as defined in § 154.087 above, are subject
to the provisions of divisions (A) to (E) of this section.



   (A)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be
expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its
nonconformity. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or occupancies
within the Floodway District is prohibited.



   (B)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming
structure or nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood
damage potential of that structure or use must be protected to the regulatory
flood protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or
floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 thru FP-4 floodproofing classifications)
allowable in the State Building Code, except as further restricted in
divisions (C) through (G) below.



   (C)   The cost of ail structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure may not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the
structure must meet the standards of §§ 154.089 and 154.090 above for new
structures depending upon whether the structure is in the Floodway or Flood
Fringe District, respectively.



   (D)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming
structure, is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the
premises must conform to this ordinance. The Assessor must notify the Zoning
Administrator in writing of instances of nonconformities that have been
discontinued for a period of more than one year.



   (E)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in
§ 154.087 above, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new
uses or new structures in §§ 154.089 and 154.090 will apply depending upon
whether the use or structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.



   (F)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive
loss, as defined in § 154.087 above, it must not be reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter.



   (G)   Any substantial improvement, as defined in § 154.097 above,
to a nonconforming structure requires that the existing structure and any
additions must meet the requirements of §§ 154.089 and 154.090 of this
subchapter for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District.



(Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



§ 154.097  VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of
this subchapter or fail to comply with any of its requirements, including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses.



   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Council from taking
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. These
actions may include, but are not limited to, the following.



      (1)   In responding to a suspected violation, the Zoning
Administrator and the Council may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to them, including, but not limited to, prosecution and
fines, injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or
a request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood
insurance availability to the guilty party. The city must act in good faith
to enforce these official controls and to correct violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.



      (2)   When a violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of
the violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible,
this information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency regional office along with
the city’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.



      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected
party of the requirements of this subchapter and all other official controls
and the nature and extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If
the structure or use is under construction or development, the Zoning
Administrator may order the construction or development immediately halted
until a proper permit or approval is granted  by the city. If the
construction or development is already completed, then the Zoning
Administrator may either:



         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions
that must be made within a specified time period to bring the use or
structure into compliance with the official controls; or



         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an
after-the-fact permit or development approval within a specified period of
time not to exceed 30 days.



      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond
to the Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each
additional day that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this
subchapter and shall be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator
shall also, upon the lapse of the specified response period, notify the
landowner to restore the land to the condition which existed prior to the
violation of this subchapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.098)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-223, passed
5-12-1998) Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.098  AMENDMENTS.



   (A)   Floodplain designation; restrictions on removal. The
floodplain designation on the official zoning map must not be removed from
floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or
that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory
flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain.
Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) if the Commissioner determines that,
through other measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.



   (B)   Amendments require DNR approval. All amendments to this
ordinance must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) prior to adoption. The Commissioner
must approve the amendment prior to community approval.



   (C)   Map revisions require ordinance amendments. The floodplain
district regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
154.086(C) above.



(2004 Code, § 154.099)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-223, passed
5-12-1998; Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)




DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS




§ 154.110  BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS; CONDITIONS; LICENSING.



   Bed and breakfast establishments (“the establishment”) may be
allowed as a conditional use in the city by permit as provided by the zoning
and land use regulations established by the city, if the following conditions
are met.



   (A)   The owner or resident manager of the establishment shall
operate and reside at the facility.



   (B)   The establishment shall conform to State Health and Building
Code requirements.



   (C)   The establishment’s owner must furnish evidence that
licenses required by the state either have been issued or will be issued
before commencing operation.



   (D)   The establishment shall be limited to five guest rooms.



   (E)   Guests shall not stay at the establishment for more than 30
days within any 90-day period.



   (F)   The establishment shall provide a minimum of one off-street
automobile parking space for each guest room and one off-street automobile
parking space for the owner of the establishment.



   (G)   Identifying signs for the establishment shall be no more than
20 square feet in total, located on the building and consistent with the
character of the building.



   (H)   No cooking or cooking facilities shall be allowed or provided
in the establishment’s guest rooms.



   (I)   Meals shall be provided only to overnight guests of the
establishment. The City Council may approve, at its sole discretion, the
provision of meals for non-guests for special events such as banquets or
family gatherings, but only if adequate parking is provided and no increase
in traffic volume will occur as a result of the special event. Approval may
be limited to a single event or on an annual basis.



   (J)   The City Council may, at its sole discretion, waive parking
and other non-health and safety requirements of land use and zoning
ordinances of the city for facilities listed on the National Register of
Historic Places.



(2004 Code, § 154.110)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.111  AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATIONS; STANDARDS.



   (A)   Motor fuel stations are subject to submission of a site plan
conforming to the design standards in this section and a statement agreeing
to the performance of those standards.



   (B)   The design standards are as follows.



      (1)   The parcel of land shall not be less than 150 feet wide
and 125 feet deep with one side facing on an arterial, minor arterial or
collector street.



      (2)   No curb cut on an arterial or collector street shall be
within 75 feet and no curb cut on a local street shall be within 25 feet of
the intersection of the project curb lines; no curb cut shall exceed 32 feet
at the sidewalk line; the driveway installed with a curb cut shall not cause
the public sidewalk to slope greater than one-quarter inch per foot; and no
more than three curb cuts shall be permitted.



      (3)   The pump islands shall observe the required front yard
setback, 15 feet or more of which shall be landscaped and protected by a curb
at least six inches high except for approved driveway crossings.



      (4)   All of the area of the parcel, except that covered by
buildings and landscaping, shall be hard surfaced to control dust and
drainage. Drainage and surfacing plans are to be approved by the City
Engineer.



      (5)   An eight-foot tall, 100% opaque fence shall be installed
and maintained along the property line where that line abuts a residentially
zoned parcel. There shall be a five-foot wide strip of land on the
residential side of the fence landscaped with a combination of deciduous and
coniferous plants approved by the city’s Planning Commission. Should the
abutting area be zoned residential, a 50-foot setback is to be provided
between the property line and any principal or accessory structure.



      (6)   A minimum of four parking spaces for each service stall
shall be provided, none of which are within the service drives for the pumps
nor within the required front yard; also, should the motor fuel station be a
combined business, the portion of the site and structure devoted to the other
business shall be calculated independently for determining parking to be
provided.



      (7)   All lights shall be so located or shielded that the
resulting light pattern does not extend into abutting residential lots or the
public right-of-way beyond the intensity of one foot-candle.



      (8)   The sale or rental of trailers, autos, campers, boats or
other merchandise requiring outside storage shall be considered a separate
business, shall be approved as a separate business and shall not occupy the
minimum area required to conduct a motor fuel station.



      (9)   No obstructions shall be placed in the public
right-of-way, handicapped ramps, parking stalls or access drives.



      (10)   A perspective drawing, including elevations, shall be
submitted for approval which indicates an architectural style compatible with
adjacent existing or proposed developments.



      (11)   Provisions shall be made for on-lot receptacles for the
storage of trash in areas which are screened from the public view.



      (12)   Where vending machines are proposed as an accessory
use, they shall be incorporated into the design of the structure.



      (13)   All fuel storage tanks shall be placed in conformance
with state fire codes and so located that they may be serviced without the
truck extending beyond the property line.



(2004 Code, § 154.111)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.112  CAR WASHES; STANDARDS.



   (A)   Car washes are subject to the submission of a site plan
conforming to the design standards in this section and a statement agreeing
to the performance of those standards.



   (B)   The design standards are as follows.



      (1)   The minimum lot width shall be 125 feet at the front
yard building setback line.



      (2)   No curb cut on an arterial or collector street shall be
within 75 feet and no curb cut on a non-major thoroughfare shall be within 25
feet of the intersection of the project curb lines; no curb cut shall exceed
28 feet at the sidewalk line; the driveway installed with a curb cut shall
not cause the public sidewalk to slope greater than one-quarter inch per
foot; and no more than two curb cuts shall be permitted on any one public
street.



      (3)   A side and rear yard setback of five feet shall be
maintained between the parking area and any lot line adjacent to general
commercial or industrial districts. A side and rear setback of 25 feet shall
be maintained between any parking area and any lot line adjacent to
Neighborhood Commercial (C-1) Districts. A side and rear yard setback of 50
feet shall be maintained between any parking area and any lot line adjacent
to all residential and multiple zoning districts.



      (4)   An eight-foot decorative fence, or a 15-foot wide
planting strip and three-foot decorative fence, shall be installed and
maintained along the property line where that line abuts a residentially
zoned parcel. Should the planting strip and fence combination be selected,
the proposed planting plan shall be approved by the city. Should the abutting
area be zoned residential, a 50-foot setback is to be provided between the
property line and any principal or accessory structure.



      (5)   Parking shall be provided in accordance with App. B to
this chapter.



      (6)   Interior curbs shall be constructed within the property
lines to separate driving and parking surfaces from landscaped areas.
Interior curbs required by this section shall be a normal six inches in
height.



      (7)   All lights shall be so located or shielded that the
resulting light pattern does not extend into abutting residential lots or the
public right-of-way beyond the intensity of one foot-candle.



      (8)   Selling or storage of commodities or services (including
gasoline sales) other than as defined in this section shall be conducted in
conformance with the requirements of the zoning district in which the car
wash is located.



      (9)   All washing facilities shall be completely within an
enclosed building.



      (10)   A perspective drawing, including elevations, shall be
submitted for approval which indicates an architectural style compatible with
adjacent existing or proposed developments.



      (11)   Provisions shall be made for on-lot receptacles for the
storage of trash in areas which are screened from the public view.



      (12)   Vacuuming facilities shall not be located along public
streets and shall be completely screened from public streets and adjacent
property.



      (13)   Where vending machines are proposed as an accessory
use, they shall be incorporated into the design of the structure.



      (14)   Where gasoline sales are involved, all fuel storage
tanks shall be placed in compliance with the State Fire Code underground and
so located that they may be serviced without the tank trunk extending beyond
the property line. Where gasoline sales are also involved, compliance with
service station requirements must be met.



      (15)   All wash water disposal facilities including sludge,
grit removal and disposal equipment shall be subject to the approval of the
City Engineer and shall conform with all city ordinances regarding sewage and
health provisions, and shall be designed so as not to affect detrimentally
the city sewer system. A flammable waste trap is required.



(2004 Code, § 154.112)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.113  TEMPORARY RECYCLING COLLECTION LOCATION; STANDARDS; LICENSING.



   (A)   The temporary location of mobile recycling centers within
zoning districts I-1, IC-1, C-3 and C-4 shall be permitted; provided,
however, that, a license is issued and the fee for the license is paid by the
applicant.



   (B)   A license may be issued only when the applicant has submitted
an application in a form approved by the City Administrator and has met the
following requirements.



      (1)   The applicant must specify the location sought for a
temporary recycling site.



      (2)   Collection activities shall be allowed at specified
location no more than one day per week.



      (3)   Collection may occur only between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m.



      (4)   The applicant shall be limited to no more than one
vehicle per site. No shredding of material shall occur at the collection
site. No stockpiling is permitted. The only piece of equipment permitted
outside of the recycling vehicle is a scale.



      (5)   A metal separator and compactor may be used for the
purpose of collection of aluminum material but only if the equipment is
totally contained within a vehicle or not accessible to the public.



   (C)   A collection vehicle may be located on a site only if it does
not impede access to the site, hinder normal vehicular flow on the site or
use excessive parking area.



   (D)   A collection vehicle shall not be located within 200 feet of
an adjacent commercial facility or 300 feet of a residence.



   (E)   All garbage and debris must be removed from the area in which
the collection activity was collected prior to departing.



   (F)   Any vehicles used in collection shall be clean and otherwise
comply with all traffic regulations.



   (G)   No signs promoting the recycling activity may be posted
anywhere other than directly affixed to the collection vehicle.



   (H)   Only household recyclables may be collected at a temporary
site. Household recyclables include newspapers, plastic, glass and metal cans.



   (I)   The applicant shall submit a schedule of dates for a one-year
calendar period at the time of application, and a supplemental list, in the
case of mid-year applicants, shall be submitted by December 31 of the year of
application for the following year.



   (J)   Municipal sponsored recycling activities are exempt from the
provisions of this section. Non-profit organizations shall apply for a
license to conduct recycling activities at a temporary location but shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section. Each non-profit organization
may sponsor no more than four temporary location recycling projects in any
one calendar year.



(2004 Code, § 154.113)  (Ord. 90-24, passed 8-28-1990)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.114  PIPELINE SETBACK.



   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



      BUILDING. A structure designed primarily for human use or
occupancy including businesses, offices, educational facilities, medical
facilities, residences and institutions. Decks, overhangs, porches or similar
attached structures are considered part of the BUILDING. BUILDING does not
include appurtenances required to operate or maintain pipeline systems.



      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Public Safety.



      OTHER DEVELOPMENT. Commercial, industrial or agricultural
development when it results in the construction of a building or place of
public assembly.



      PIPELINE. Has the meaning given it in M.S. § 299J.02(11), as it
may be amended from time to time.



         (a)   A pipe with a nominal diameter of six inches or
more, that is used to transport hazardous liquids, but does not include pipe
used to transport a hazardous liquid by gravity, and pipe used to transport
or store a hazardous liquid within a refining, storage or manufacturing
facility; or



         (b)   Pipe operated at a pressure of more than 275
pounds per square inch that carries gas.



      PIPELINE EASEMENT. The existing easement or a subsequent easement
resulting from the negotiation of a change in the boundaries of the existing
easement.



      PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. A site that is occupied by 20 or more
persons on at least five days a week for ten weeks in any 12-month period.
The days and weeks need not be consecutive.



(MRAC 7530)



   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to set out a model
ordinance requiring a setback from pipeline sites where residential or other
development may occur. The state model setback ordinance prohibits buildings
and places of public assembly from being constructed closer to a pipeline
than the boundary of the pipeline easement.



(MRAC 7530)



   (C)   Scope. This section applies to statutory or home rule charter
cities, towns and counties that have planning and zoning authority under M.S.
§§ 366.10 through 366.180 and 366.017, 394.21 through 394.37 or 462.351
through 462.365, as they may be amended from time to time, and in which a
pipeline is located.



(MRAC 7530)



      (1)   Application. The model setback ordinance must be applied
to any jurisdiction that has not adopted an approved setback ordinance by
8-1-1991.



      (2)   Approval process. The city shall submit a copy of its
proposed ordinance to the Commissioner. The proposed ordinance must be
compared to the definitions and model setback ordinance in Minn. Rules parts
7535.0100 and 7535.0500, as they may be amended from time to time, to ensure
that the proposed setback meets or exceeds the minimum standards set out in
the model. The Commissioner’s written decision on the proposed ordinance
will be sent to the jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt. The decision must
specify approval of the ordinance or areas of deficiency and recommended
modifications.



(MRAC 7530)



   (D)   Model setback ordinance.



      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of a model setback ordinance set
out in this part is to increase public safety by requiring that new
development be set back from pipeline locations.



      (2)   Applicability. This ordinance applies to new residential
and other development. It does not apply to development that has occurred or
for which development permits have been issued before 7-1-1991.



      (3)   Setback. Buildings and places of public assembly subject
to this ordinance shall not be constructed closer to the pipeline than the
boundary of the pipeline easement.



      (4)   Variances.



         (a)   Variance procedures adopted by the local unit of
government under M.S. §§ 366.10 through 366.19, 394.21 through 394.37 or
462.351 through 462.365, as they may be amended from time to time, shall
apply.



(MRAC 7530)



         (b)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to
consider variances must by sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s
designated representative and postmarked at least ten days before the hearing.



(2004 Code, § 154.114)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



Statutory reference:



   Authority, see M.S. § 299J.05, as it may be amended from time to time



§ 154.115  SCREENING; LANDSCAPING; OUTDOOR STORAGE AND DISPLAY.



   (A)   Screening.



      (1)   All commercial or industrial principal and accessory
buildings which are situated adjacent to a residential zoning district shall
be screened from that district by a wooden wall or fence of not less than
100% opacity and not less than eight feet in height above the level of the
residential district property at its boundary. This wall or fence shall be
set back from the property line at least five feet. In the setback area shall
be planted a combination of coniferous and deciduous plants and, possibly,
vines in order to soften the appearance of the fence or wall from the
affected residential area.



      (2)   Walls or fences of lesser heights or planting screens
may be permitted by the City Council if there is a finding that the nature or
extent of the use being screened is such that a lesser degree of screening
will as adequately promote and protect the use and enjoyment of the
properties within the adjacent residential district, or there is a finding
that a screening of the type required by this code would interfere with the
provision of adequate amounts of light and air to the residential properties.



      (3)   All required screening devices shall be designed so that
they are architecturally harmonious with the principal structures on the site
and they shall be properly maintained so as to not become unsightly,
hazardous or less opaque than when originally constructed.



   (B)   Landscaping.



      (1)   All exposed ground areas surrounding or within a
principal or accessory use including street boulevards which are not devoted
to drives, sidewalks, patios or other such uses shall be landscaped. All
landscaped areas shall be kept neat, clean and uncluttered. No landscaped
area shall be used for the parking of vehicles or the storage or display of
materials, supplies or merchandise.



      (2)   Landscape requirements.



         (a)   Purpose. Commercial/industrial landscaping
requirements are established to foster aesthetically pleasing developments
that protect and preserve the appearance, character, health, safety, and
welfare of the community. In addition, these requirements are intended to
increase the compatibility of adjacent land uses by minimizing the harmful
impact of noise, dust, debris, motor vehicle headlight glare, other
artificial light intrusions, and other objectionable activities or impacts
conducted on or created by the development or adjoining or nearby land uses.



         (b)   General requirements. In addition to required
landscaping standards, all commercial/industrial development sites shall meet
the following requirements.



            1.   As part of a site plan review, conditional
use or other development proposal, a landscaping plan is required, prepared
by a qualified landscape designer or landscape architect, which demonstrates
compliance with provisions herein. Landscape designs shall address:



               a.   Planting schedule, indicating symbols,
common and botanical names, sizes of plant material and special planting
instructions. Trees proposed shall be on the city's approved species list, or
be approved in advance of submitting the design;



               b.   Location, type and size of all existing
trees over six inches diameter that are to be removed or preserved. A
reasonable attempt shall be made to preserve as many existing trees as
practical and to incorporate them into the site plan;



               c.   Planting detail showing all species to
scale at their normal mature crown diameter or spread for the local hardiness
zone;



               d.   Typical sections with details of
fences, tie walls, berms and other site amenities;



               e.   Typical sections with details of
landscape islands, planter beds and foundation plantings with identifications
of materials to be used;



               f.   Notes indicating how disturbed soil
areas will be restored through the use of seeding, sodding, or other
techniques;



               g.   Delineation of areas that will be
sodded, hydro-seeded, seeded, or areas where ground cover is to be
established by other means; and



               h.   Where landscape materials are used to
provide screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross-through
section shall be provided indicating the perspective from the neighboring
property at the property line elevation and any existing or proposed
conditions that could potentially affect landscaping for screening of the
site.



            2.   Finished sites. All managed landscaped areas
shall be brought to finished grade and planted in sod, turf grass, native
grasses, or other appropriate ground covers. Undisturbed areas containing
existing viable natural vegetation may be left in their natural state,
provided they are kept free of litter, debris and noxious and/or unsightly
weeds.



            3.   Sodding/seeding requirements. Sod or
hydro-seeding shall be utilized on all public rights-of-way. Seeding or other
acceptable ground cover establishment methods may be permitted in other areas
of the site.



         (c)   Required landscaping.



            1.   For all commercial and industrial areas, at
least 20% of the lot area shall be managed landscaped area. The landscaping
shall be concentrated between the principal structure and any adjacent street
right-of-way or other areas of the lot which are visible from a street or
adjacent residentially zoned property.



            2.   The composition and locations of managed
landscaped areas shall complement the scale of the development and its
surroundings. In general, larger, well-placed contiguous planting areas are
preferable to smaller, disconnected areas. Managed landscaped areas of the
site shall be landscaped as follows:



               a.   In areas where trees are used, not less
than one tree, as follows:



                  i.   One shade tree for each 1,500
square feet of managed landscaped area, or fraction thereof;



                  ii.   One evergreen tree for each 700
square feet of managed landscaped area, or fraction thereof; and/or



                  iii.   One ornamental tree for each
450 square feet of managed landscaped area, or fraction thereof.



               b.   The remainder of landscaped areas shall
be covered with turf grass, native grasses, or other perennial flowering
plants, vines, shrubs or trees.



         (d)   Exceptions to landscaping requirements.
Substitution or reduction of landscaped plant materials, managed landscaped
areas, or other landscaping standards may be approved by the city.



         (e)   Plant material standards. Landscape species shall
be indigenous or be proven adaptable to the climate, but shall not be
invasive to native species. Plant materials shall comply with American
Standard for Nursery Stock and the following standards:



            a.   Minimum plant size:



 


Plant type

 
Minimum size


Deciduous shade tree
 
1½-inch diameter


Deciduous ornamental tree
 
1½-inch diameter


Coniferous/evergreen tree
 
6-feet in height



 



            b.   Trees and landscape plants shall be tolerant
of specific site conditions, including but not limited to heat, cold, drought
and salt.



         (f)   Installation and maintenance of landscape
materials. All landscape materials installed shall comply with the following:



            a.   Areas to be landscaped shall be prepared and
improved as specified by current Minnesota Department of Transportation
standards for soil preparation and drainage.



            b.   All landscape materials shall be installed to
current industry standards.



            c.   Maintenance and replacement of landscape
materials shall be the responsibility of the applicant/property owner.



            d.   All landscaping shall be subject to
inspection within one growing season by the city. Landscaping not installed,
maintained or replaced, as needed to comply with provisions herein, shall be
considered in violation. Property owners shall receive notice of violation in
accordance with city code enforcement requirements.



   (C)   Outdoor storage and displays.



      (1)   Open storage in industrial or commercial district
buildings shall be allowed only with a conditional use permit. All other
storage shall be maintained within an enclosed building or structure.



      (2)   All materials, by-products, supplies, merchandise or
other similar matter not on display for direct sale, rental or lease to the
consumer or user shall be stored within a completely enclosed building or
within the confines of a 100% opaque wall or fence no less than five feet
tall or other buffering approved by the City Council. Merchandise which is
offered for sale as described heretofore may be displayed beyond the confines
of a building only upon application to the City Council for special temporary
permission and only following agreement to all conditions which may be
attached to that authorization.



(2004 Code, § 154.115)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 16-767, passed
4-11-2017)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.116  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.



   (A)   Minimum size requirements.



      (1)   Each space shall contain a minimum area of not less than
300 square feet including access drives, a width of not less than eight and
one-half feet and a depth of not less than 20 feet. Spaces for the physically
handicapped shall be 12 feet by 20 feet, plus off-loading zone.



      (2)   Each space shall be adequately served by access drives.
All loading spaces shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of each issue
and shall provide adequate space for storage and maneuvering of the vehicles
it is designed to serve. The minimum dimensions allowable for a loading space
or truck berth shall be 12 feet in width and 65 feet in depth.



   (B)   Reduction and use of parking and loading space. Off-street
parking facilities existing at the effective date of this chapter shall not
subsequently be reduced to an amount less than that required under this
chapter for a similar new building or use. Off-street parking facilities
provided to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall not subsequently
be reduced below the requirements of this chapter, except as provided in §
154.172 of this chapter, regarding variances. The required parking or loading
space shall not be used for storage of goods or for storage of vehicles that
are inoperable or for sale or rent.



   (C)   Calculation of required parking. In calculating the number of
parking spaces required, the following rules shall govern.



      (1)   For the purpose of this calculation, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



         FLOOR SPACE. The gross floor area of the specific use.



      (2)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces
required shall be construed to be the nearest whole number.



      (3)   For uses not specifically listed in this chapter, uses
for which a specific number of spaces have not been defined or for joint
parking facilities serving two or more different uses, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall determine the number of spaces to be required by utilizing the
requirements of the most similar use listed in App. B to this chapter.
Issuance of building permits for the above situations shall be subject to
approval of all site plans.



   (D)   Loading docks and berths. Placement of loading docks and
berths shall be limited to side and rear yards; except that, where a dock or
berth is so designed as to be fully enclosed and incorporated within a
principal structure, including any vehicle being loaded or unloaded, that
dock or berth may be placed in a front area.



   (E)   Buffer fences and planting screens. Off-street parking and
loading areas near or adjoining residential districts shall be screened by a
fence not less than eight feet in height and 100% opaque. On the residential
side of the fence shall be a five-foot wide area which is landscaped with
coniferous and deciduous plantings and approved by the Planning Commission.
Plans of the screen or fence shall be submitted for approval as a part of the
required site plan, and the fence and landscaping shall be installed as part
of the initial construction.



   (F)   Access.



      (1)   Parking and loading space shall have proper access from
a public right-of-way.



      (2)   The number and width of access drives shall be so
located as to minimize traffic congestion and abnormal traffic hazard, and no
driveway in the R-3 and R-4 Residential Districts and all industrial
districts shall be closer than 50 feet from any right-of-way line of a street
intersection. In R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts and the C-1 Commercial
District, the minimum distance shall be 20 feet.



      (3)   In R-3, R-4, C-2 and I-1 Districts, direct access shall
be provided to a collector street as shown on the adopted city land use plan
or to a related service road.



   (G)   Location of parking facilities. Off-street parking of trucks
or buses with a gross weight of over four and one-half tons, except for
deliveries and unloading, shall be prohibited in all residential districts.



   (H)   Combined facilities. Combined or joint facilities may be
provided for one or more buildings or uses; provided that, the total number
of spaces shall be determined as provided in this section.



   (I)   Construction and maintenance.



      (1)   In the R-3, R-4 and R-5 Residential Districts, and all
commercial and industrial districts, parking areas and access drives shall be
covered with an all-weather surface. The all-weather surface shall be a
minimum standard of six-inch gravel base and two-inch plant mix bituminous
surface. Alternate designs may be submitted to the City Engineer for
approval. This approval must be made prior to issuance of a building permit.



      (2)   All existing parking lots with substandard surfaces
should be allowed to remain until either the property is sold or a building
permit for addition or remodeling is requested.



      (3)   The operator of the principal building or use shall
maintain the parking and loading area, access drives and yard areas in a neat
and adequate manner.



   (J)   Lighting. Lighting shall not be directed upon the public
right-of-way and nearby or adjacent properties. Illumination must be indirect
or diffused.



   (K)   Required site plan. Any application for a building permit,
zoning permit or for a certificate of occupancy shall include a site plan or
plot plan drawn to scale and dimensions showing off-street parking and
loading space to be provided in compliance with this chapter. All new
principal buildings shall be drawn to scale on a registered land survey.



   (L)   Application of parking and loading requirements. Off-street
parking and loading regulations shall apply to all buildings and uses of land
established after the effective date of this chapter.



   (M)   Required number of off-street parking spaces. Off-street
parking areas of sufficient size to provide parking for patrons, customers,
suppliers, visitors and employees shall be provided on the premises of each
use. App. B to this chapter designates the minimum number of parking and
loading spaces that are required to be provided and maintained at the time
any new use or structure is occupied or any existing use or structure is
enlarged or increased in capacity.



(2004 Code, § 154.116)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.117  FILLING OR REMOVAL OF SOIL, SAND OR OTHER MATERIALS.



   (A)   Filling excavation. The use of land for major removal of
topsoil, sand or gravel, and other material from the land is not permitted in
any zoning district, except I-2 (municipal), except by the granting of a
temporary excavation permit by the City Council after a review by the
city’s Planning Commission. Permits shall be issued for a maximum period of
one year and shall be subject to review and rehearing at that time. Any
filling of more than 1,000 square yards requires a permit.



   (B)   Future use of the land. The persons who apply for a temporary
excavation permit must submit a plan of intent as well as to the future use
of the property being excavated as well as the development plans showing
proposed elevations, drainage, access routes to be used in hauling to and/or
from the site and daily hours intended for the operation as well as project
period of excavation. Minor excavation requires the City Engineer’s review
and approval.



   (C)   Safety precautions. If, during the excavation work, it becomes
necessary for the person excavating to create a condition of grade of
drainage not in the interest of health or safety, it shall become that
person’s duty to correct, immediately, the dangerous situation created, as
well as to fence that area from the general public during the period of
danger.



   (D)   Bonding. It shall be necessary for the person securing a
temporary excavation permit to present adequate proof of bonding to the city
in the form of a performance bond, sufficient in value to cover the expense
of the completion of the development plan or to bring that portion of the
completed project to a safe grade and elevation so as to be healthful and
safe to the general public and to provide safe and adequate drainage of the
site.



(2004 Code, § 154.117)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.118  FENCES AND WALLS.



   (A)   In any zoning district, fences, walls and hedges, may be built
or planted, subject to meeting the following requirements.



      (1)   Fences, walls, hedges or other obstructions shall not
encroach on any public right-of-way and must be a minimum of five feet from
any of the rights-of-way (excluding alleys). In addition, fences, walls,
hedges, landscaping or other obstructions within two feet of the edge of
trails are prohibited when the trails are not located in a right-of-way.



      (2)   Fences and walls may be built up to, but not on,
interior property lines.



      (3)   No fence or wall shall exceed seven feet in height in
any residential district.



      (4)   The finished side of the fence shall be to the outside
of the property with the posts to the inside, unless the fence is the same on
both sides.



      (5)   Fences and walls within non-residential districts may be
constructed up to eight feet in height, unless otherwise limited within the
zoning district of the subject property, or if a higher fence is required to
meet the screening requirements of this section. Fences and walls over seven
feet shall be designed by a structural engineer. Refer to specific zoning
district of the property for additional requirements and development
standards.



      (6)   On corner lots, no obstructions over 30 inches high are
allowed within the “sight triangle”, as identified on the following
diagram.







      (7)   Approval of a fence permit is required prior to
construction of any fence or wall.



   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may prohibit development in
accordance with the above in instances that would produce a safety or traffic
hazard.



(2004 Code, § 154.118)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 02-321, passed
10-8-2002; Ord. 08-0515, passed 11-12-2008; Ord. 10-0663, passed
12-14-2010)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.119  TELECOMMUNICATIONS.



   (A)   Purpose and intent. In order to accommodate the communication
needs of the residents, business and industry while protecting the health,
safety and general welfare of the city, the following regulations are imposed
in order to:



      (1)   Facilitate the use of wireless communication services,
television and radio antennas, for residents, business and industry of the
city;



      (2)   Minimize adverse effects of towers through careful
design and site standards;



      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower
or antenna failure through structural standards and setback requirements;



      (4)   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and
buildings to accommodate new wireless telecommunication antennas in order to
reduce the number of towers needed to serve the community; and



      (5)   To regulate access to and ongoing use of public
rights-of-way and facilities such as water tanks, building roof tops,
lighting masts and other structures by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities.



   (B)   Definitions.



      ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT.  The wires, cables, generators, air
conditioning units, and other equipment or facilities that are used with
antennas.



      AESTHETICS. (Also known as CONCEAL,CONCEALMENT or STEALTH
DESIGN.) Refers to state-of-the-art design techniques used to blend the
object into the surrounding environment and to minimize the negative
aesthetic impacts (to be further defined in the review process). Examples of
aesthetic design techniques include architecturally screening roof mounted
antennas and accessory equipment; integrating telecommunications facilities
into architectural elements; nestling telecommunications facilities into the
surrounding landscape so that the topography or vegetation reduces their
view; using the location that would result in the least amount of visibility
to the public, minimizing the size and appearance of the telecommunications
facilities; and designing towers to appear other than as towers, such as
light poles, power poles, flag poles, and trees.



      ANTENNA. Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on
a tower, monopole, building, or other structure and used in communications
that radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog
signals, radio frequencies (excluding radar signals), wireless
telecommunications signals or other communications signals. ANTENNA does not
include a lightning rod.



      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any new or existing tower, building,
water tower, or electric transmission tower carrying over 200 kilo volts of
electricity that can be used for the location of antennas without increasing
the height or mass of the existing structure.



      APPLICANT.



         (a)   Any person or entity who files an application for
any permit or is party to any lease agreement required by this chapter for
the construction, replacement, installation, or alteration of a wireless
communication facility or any component thereof.



         (b)   Means and refers to the person(s), party or
entity, owning and/or operating the transmission equipment proposed in an
application.



      CITY. Means and refers to the City of Hutchinson or the
authorized agent as designated by the City Council of the City of Hutchinson.



      CO-LOCATION. The sharing of structures by two or more wireless
service providers on a single support structure or otherwise sharing a common
location.



      EASEMENT. A legal interest in real property that transfers a
partial property right to the holder of the easement authorizing a person or
party to use the land or property of another for a particular purpose.



      ENGINEER. Refers to but is not limited to a radio, electrical,
structural, or mechanical engineer, licensed by the State of Minnesota.



      EQUIPMENT LEASE AREA. A specified area at the base of or near a
telecommunication facility, tower, or antenna that can contain an enclosed
structure or open platform within which are housed, among other things,
batteries, generators, air conditioning units, wireless communications or
electrical equipment, or other accessory equipment, which may be connected to
the telecommunications facility, tower or antenna by cable.



      INVENTORY OF SMALL CELL SITES. Refers to an accurate and current
inventory of all small cell sites approved by lessor pursuant to this lease
agreement, including sites that become inactive for any reason.



      LANDLINE BROADBAND BACKHAUL TRANSPORT SERVICE. Refers to a fiber
or other high-speed landline communications transport service contracted by
lessee from a third-party provider that interconnects with the base station
equipment at the point-of-demarcation and provides transport service back to
lessee's network.



      LESSEE. The party who rents land or property from a lessor. The
lessee is also known as the TENANT and must uphold specific obligations as
defined in the lease agreement and by law.



      LESSOR. The owner of an asset that is leased under an agreement
to the lessee. The lessee makes one-time or periodic payments to the lessor
in return for the use of the asset. The lease agreement is binding on both
the lessor and the lessee, and spells out the rights and obligations of both
parties.



      MONOPOLE. A structure composed of a single spire used to support
telecommunications equipment having no guy wires or ground anchors.



      PERMIT HOLDER. A person or entity who holds a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter for a telecommunications facility.



      POINT OF DEMARCATION. The point of where the transmission media
of small cell equipment terminates and interconnects with broadband backhaul
transmission facilities, whether provided by landline or wireless
communications infrastructure.



      PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE.  A structure which is owned by a
governmental agency or utility company and which may be/can be used to
support illumination devices or lines and other equipment carrying
electricity or communications.



      RADIO PROPAGATION STUDY. The propagation of radio waves is
described through the modeling of the different physical mechanisms
(free-space attenuation, atmospheric attenuation, vegetation and hydrometer
attenuation, attenuation by diffraction, building penetration loss, etc).
This modeling is necessary for the conception of telecommunications systems
and, once they have been designed, for their actual field deployment.
Propagation models are implemented in engineering tools for the prediction of
different useful parameters for the field deployment of systems, for the
study of the radio coverage (selection of the emission sites, frequency
allocation, powers evaluation, antenna gains, polarization) and for the
definition of the interferences occurring between distant transmitters.



      RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY COMMUNICATION DEVICES. Any satellite
dishes, television antennas, radio antennas, amateur radio antennas, and
similar communication transmission/reception devices and associated accessory
equipment that are a permitted accessory use within a residential district.



      RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). The actual physical land area within a route
that is acquired for a specific purpose, such as a transmission line or
roadway.



      ROOFTOP MOUNTED WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A wireless
telecommunication facility with antennas located on the roof of a building or
on top of a structure and consisting of antennas, support structures and
accessory equipment, but are adequately screened so as not to appear as
stand-alone devices above the top of the roof line.



      SMALL CELL EQUIPMENT. Refers to wireless facilities and
transmission media attached, mounted, or installed on a proprietary or leased
utility pole, street light, building or other structure and used to provide
personal communications service.



      SMALL CELL SITE. A low-power radio access facility, together with
associated antennas, mounting and mechanical equipment, which provides and
extends wireless communications systems' service coverage and increases
network capacity.



      STREET LIGHT. A raised source of light usually mounted on a pole
and constituting one of a series spaced at intervals along a public street or
highway used to illuminate a public area, usually urban. Also referred to as
a STREETLAMP.



      TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. Refers to antennas, accessory
equipment or towers.



      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. The structures and equipment which
make up a  telecommunications network. Telecommunications facilities are
defined by Federal Standard 1037C as the following:



         (a)   A fixed, mobile, or transportable structure,
including:



            1.   All installed electrical and electronic
wiring, cabling, and equipment; and



            2.   All supporting structures, such as utility,
ground network, and electrical supporting structures;



         (b)   A network provided service to users or the network
operating administration;



         (c)   A transmission pathway and associated equipment;



         (d)   In a protocol applicable to a data unit, such as a
block or frame, an additional item of information or a constraint encoded
within the protocol to provide the required control; and



         (e)   A real property entity consisting of one or more
of the following: a building, a structure, a utility system, pavement, and
underlying land.



      TOWER. Any of the following: a ground or roof mounted pole;
spire; free standing, self-supporting lattice or monopole structure; or
combination thereof taller than 15 feet, including but not limited to
supporting lines, cables, wires, braces, and masts, intended primarily for
the purpose of mounting an antenna, meteorological device, or similar
apparatus above grade (except amateur radio antennas).



      TRAFFIC LIGHT or TRAFFIC SIGNAL SYSTEM. Electrically operated
colored signaling devices positioned at road intersections, pedestrian
crossings, and other locations to control conflicting flows of traffic.



      TRANSMISSION MEDIA. All of the lessee's radios, antennas,
transmitters, wires, fiber optic cables, and other wireless transmission
devices that are part of the small cell equipment.



      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS. Any personal wireless services as
defined in the Federal Communications Act of 1996, including FCC licensed
commercial wireless telecommunications services such as cellular, personal
communication services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobile radio (ESMR) global system of mobile communication (GSM),
paging and similar services that currently exist or may be developed.



      UTILITY POLE. A structure that is:



         (a)   Owned or operated by:



            1.   A public utility;



            2.   A communications service provider;



            3.   A municipality;



            4.   An electric membership corporation; or



            5.   A rural electric cooperative; and



         (b)   Designed and used to:



            1.   Carry lines, cables, or wires for telephone,
cable television, or electricity; or



            2.   Provide lighting.



   (C)   Permit required.



      (1)   Permit required. Prior to any construction or
installation activities, a telecommunications provider planning to install,
construct or operate telecommunications facilities in the city shall apply
for a telecommunications application and obtain a building permit and if
required, a conditional use permit pursuant to this section as applicable.



      (2)   Building and design standards and allowed locations for
telecommunications facilities. All telecommunications facilities shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with the following standards:



         (a)   Existing telecommunication facilities.  Existing
telecommunications facilities located on or attached to existing structures,
prior to the adoption of this section, are regulated by the provisions of the
zoning district for each such parcel. Once the leases for existing
telecommunication facilities expire or are otherwise terminated, the owner of
the telecommunication facilities shall apply for a permit under this section
and those existing telecommunications facilities shall be required to conform
to all requirements of this section for new telecommunication facilities. The
city may, among other remedies, require relocation of equipment, at the
telecommunication facilities expense, to permitted areas under this section.



         (b)   New telecommunications facilities:



            1.   New telecommunications towers shall be
located only on parcels owned and controlled by the city without a
conditional use permit, with the exact location on such parcels determined at
the sole discretion of the city.



            2.   Antennas shall be located on a new or
replacement tower at the locations permitted for telecommunications
facilities only if the applicant complies with the following requirements, in
addition to the other requirements of this section:



               a.   Unless the applicant is a provider of
wireless communications, the applicant shall provide an analysis prepared by
a radio or electrical engineer demonstrating that the proposed location of
the antennas is necessary to meet the coverage and/or capacity needs of its
system. The applicant shall provide a network map describing all of the
applicant's telecommunications facilities that provide any coverage within
the city's limits. All applicants shall provide documentation prepared by a
radio or electrical engineer to show the antennas would not cause
interference with other existing or approved telecommunications equipment.
The applicant shall also pay the reasonable expenses of a radio or electrical
engineer retained by the city, at the city's option, to review this analysis;



               b.   The new or replacement
telecommunications facilities shall use stealth design techniques as approved
by the city. Economic considerations or hardships shall not be the sole
justification for failing to provide stealth design techniques; and



               c.   The new or replacement tower and
antenna, including attachments other than lightning rods, shall not exceed
150 feet in height, measured from grade. The city may, but shall not be
required to increase this height up to 190 feet if the entity finds the
increase in height would not have a significant visual impact, would not have
a negative property value impact on surrounding properties because of
proximity, topography or screening by trees or buildings or would accommodate
two or more users. The city may waive this height limitation for a tower
and/or antenna if used wholly or partially for essential public services,
such as public safety.



            3.   A new antenna may be attached to an existing
public utility structure, utility pole or street light within a right-of-way
if:



               a.   The antenna does not extend more than
15 feet above the top of the existing utility structure;



               b.   The antenna is no larger than three
cubic feet and has no individual surface larger than four feet;



               c.   The antenna extends outward from the
utility structure no more than three  feet;



               d.   There is no ground mounted equipment;



               e.   There is no interference with public
safety communications or with the original use of the public utility
structure;



               f.   The applicant agrees that the antenna
must be removed and relocated at applicant's expense, when the city or
utility requires the removal and relocation of the public utility structure;



               g.   The telecommunications permit
application and all necessary agreements permitting the use of public
property are approved; and



               h.   Its inclusion/attachment does not
exceed the facilities structural capacity.



               i.   Note: No equipment will be allowed on
fiberglass light poles.



            4.   Construction plan.



               a.   A new wireless support structure will
require a written plan for construction that demonstrates the use of
aesthetics as defined in the definitions and approved by the city; includes
the total height and width of the wireless facility and wireless support
structure, including cross section and elevation, footing, foundation and
wind speed details; a structural analysis indicating the capacity for future
and existing antennas, including a geotechnical report and calculations for
the foundations capacity; the identity and qualifications of each person
directly responsible for the design and construction; and signed and sealed
documentation from a professional engineer that shows the proposed location
of the wireless facility and wireless support structure and all easements and
existing structures within 200 feet of such wireless facility or wireless
support structure.



               b.   Substantial modification of an existing
wireless facility or wireless support structure requires the following:



                  1.   An application with the name,
business address, and point of contact for the applicant;



                  2.   The location of the proposed or
affected wireless support structure or wireless facility; and



                  3.   A construction plan that
describes the proposed modifications to the wireless support structure and
all equipment and network components, including antennas, transmitters,
receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and related equipment.



      (3)   Telecommunications permit application.
Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on an application form
obtained from the city. A telecommunications provider shall file three copies
of the applications with the city. Applications shall be complete and include
all information required by this section, including a route map showing the
location of the provider’s existing and proposed facilities.



      (4)   Public data. The contents of all telecommunications
permit applications and any other documents supporting the application may be
classified as public data and as such may be released in accordance with the
Minnesota Data Practices Act or other applicable regulation or court order.



      (5)   Application fee and escrow. The application shall be
accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee in the amount
identified on the application form. At the discretion of the city, an escrow
fee may be required for applications that require analysis by the city’s
communications consultant, such as an interference analysis and
intermodulation study. The application fee and escrow amount are established
in the city’s fee schedule, set annually by the City Council. The applicant
shall also pay the expenses of a third-party engineer’s service or
technical study as required by the city.



      (6)   Additional information. The city may request an
applicant to submit such additional information which the city deems
reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such
requests within reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the city.



   (D)   Amateur radio antenna towers. The construction or erection of
towers supporting amateur radio antennas shall be a permitted use in all
zoning districts, subject to the following requirements:



      (1)   This type of tower requires a building permit;



      (2)   This type of tower shall be allowed only in the rear
yard of residentially zoned properties. If there is insufficient space within
the rear yard to erect the tower and any related guy wires, then the property
owner may apply for a conditional use permit to erect a tower in another yard
(front or side);



      (3)   This type of tower shall not exceed 75 feet in height,
except by conditional use permit;



      (4)   This type of tower shall conform to the accessory
structure setback for the district in which it is located;



      (5)   Amateur radio antenna towers shall be installed in
accordance with the instructions furnished by the manufacturer of the tower
model. Antennas mounted on a tower may be modified and changed at any time so
long as the published allowable load on the tower is not exceeded and the
structure of the tower remains in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications; and



      (6)   This type of tower shall be exempt from the requirements
of divisions (F) through (S) below.



   (E)   Antennas mounted on roofs, walls and existing towers. The
placement of wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls and existing
towers may be approved by the City Council; provided, the antennas meet the
requirements of this section, and after submittal and approval of all
permits, applications, fees and information identified in division (C) above.



   (F)   Tower locations. Antennas on a public structure or existing
structures are allowed in all districts by resolution approved by the City
Council, without a conditional use permit. However, all antenna installations
must comply with the requirements of this section. Towers not exceeding 75
feet in height may be erected after the issuance of a building permit,
without a conditional use permit. However, all tower installations must
comply with the requirements of this section. All towers shall be of a
monopole construction and subject to the regulations listed in Ch. 151 of the
city code, regarding airport zoning. Towers exceeding 75 feet in height shall
be allowed only by conditional use permit and shall only be allowed in the
following zoning districts:



      (1)   C-1, Neighborhood Convenience Commercial District;



      (2)   C-2, Automotive Service Commercial District;



      (3)   C-3, Central Commercial District;



      (4)   C-4, Fringe Commercial District;



      (5)   C-5, Conditional Commercial District;



      (6)   I/C, Industrial/Commercial District;



      (7)   I-1, Light Industrial Park District;



      (8)   I-2, Heavy Industrial District; and



      (9)   BP, Business Park District.



   (G)   Tower setbacks. The following setbacks shall apply in the
listed districts.



      (1)   In C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5, BP, I/C, I-1 and I-2
Districts, the setback of the tower shall be at a ratio of one foot of
setback for every two feet of height of tower (such as a 100-foot tower would
require a 50-foot setback from all property lines and the street
right-of-way).



      (2)   In the event that any portion of the property directly
abuts a district zoned R-1, Single- Family Residential; R-2, Medium Density
Residential; R-3, Medium-high Density Residential; R-4, High Density
Residential; R-5, Manufactured Home Park; any residential planned unit
development; or A-l, Agricultural or R-1, Rural Residential, in the Joint
Planning Area; the setback to these districts shall be at a ratio of one foot
for every one foot of height of structure (such as a 100-foot tower would
require a 100-foot setback from any property line which is residentially or
agriculturally zoned).



   (H)   Co-location requirements. All commercial towers erected,
constructed or located within the city shall comply with the following
requirements.



      (1)   A proposal for a new commercial tower shall not be
approved unless the applicant has provided proof that the proposed tower
cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within a
one-mile search radius of the proposed tower due to one or more of the
following reasons:



         (a)   The antenna would exceed the structural capacity
of the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot
be reinforced, modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost;



         (b)   The antenna would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned antenna at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;



         (c)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within
the search radius cannot accommodate the planned antenna at a height
necessary to function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer; or



         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible
to locate the planned antenna equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.



      (2)   Any proposed commercial tower shall be designed,
structurally, electronically and in all respects, to accommodate both the
applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for at least two additional
users if the tower is over 100 feet in height or for at least one additional
user if the tower is over 75 feet in height. Towers must be designed to allow
for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas
mounted at varying heights.



   (I)   Structural and landscaping requirements. Proposed or modified
towers and antennas shall meet the following design requirements:



      (1)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the
surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging
architectural treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by
federal or state authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration;



      (2)   Commercial towers shall be of a monopole design unless
the city determines that an alternative design would better blend into the
surrounding environment. Towers must be self-supporting without the use of
wires, cables, beams or other means;



      (3)   Landscaping plans for the base of the tower must be
submitted with the application of the conditional use permit, or building
permit, should a conditional use permit not be needed. These plans must be
compatible with the surrounding character of the area and must be approved
either by the city or city staff prior to the issuance of the conditional use
permit or building permit; and



      (4)   Screening plans, as may be required by the city, and
reviewed shall be inclusive of the following:



         (a)   When used, walls or fences must provide for full
visual screening of accessory buildings or storage areas, as viewed from
residential areas and state and county roads.



         (b)   The materials used for constructing the wall or
fence shall be specified in the site plan and shall meet the requirements of
this section.



         (c)   Berms, if used, shall be constructed with a slope
not to exceed 3:1 and shall be covered with sod or other landscape material
sufficient to prevent erosion of the berm.



         (d)   Trees, hedges or other vegetative materials, when
used, must provide at least 75% screening capacity throughout the year. Such
screening must also conform to all vegetative setback requirements of this
chapter.



   (J)   Construction requirements. Proposed or modified towers and
antennas shall meet the following construction requirements.



      (1)   All antennas, towers and accessory structures shall
comply with all applicable provisions of this section.



      (2)   Towers shall be certified by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer to conform to the current structural standards and wind
loading requirements of the State Building Code and Electronics Industry
Association.



      (3)   No part of any antenna or tower, nor any lines, cable,
equipment, wires or braces in connection with either, shall at any time
extend across or over any part of the right-of-way, public street, highway,
sidewalk or property line.



      (4)   Towers and associated antennas shall be designed to
conform to accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to
comply with the provisions of the National Electrical Code.



      (5)   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy
extending substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or
antenna and a structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight  feet
above the ground at all points, unless buried underground.



      (6)   As applicable to its location, with final determination
by the city, towers affixed to the ground shall be protected by a security
fence to discourage access by unauthorized persons.



      (7)   Tower locations should provide the maximum amount of
screening possible of off-site views of the facility. Existing on-site
vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent practicable. The area
around the base of the tower and any accessory structures shall be landscaped
and/or screened. The tenant must maintain, in good and healthy condition, at
all times, all landscaping attendant to the wireless telecommunications
facility, including landscaping of the public right-of-way. Any dead or dying
landscaping must be promptly replaced or rehabilitated. See division (I)
above.



   (K)   Resolution of interference. The installation and operation of
new antennas, towers and associated facilities shall not cause harmful
interference to pre-existing telecommunication system broadcast or reception,
whether they be commercial or residential. Telecommunications providers
shall, at their own expense, maintain any equipment in a safe condition, in
good repair and in a manner so as not to conflict with the use of the
surrounding premises. If, within 60 days from the initial installation and
operation of any new antenna system, the city receives notice of interference
from an adjacent property, additional study and remedy may be required. The
applicant shall be responsible for the expenses incurred in any independent
validation of interference; provided, however, should the independent
analysis conclude that the interference objections were valid; the new
antenna facility owner shall be responsible for any independent validation
fees. If new facilities are found to cause impermissible interference, the
new tenant shall take all measures reasonably necessary to correct and
eliminate the interference. If the interference cannot be eliminated within
30 days, the new facility owner shall immediately cease operating its
facility until the interference has been eliminated.



   (L)   Tower lighting. Towers shall be required to meet Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) and Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
requirements and shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the
Federal Aviation Administration to do so. If the tower does require
artificial lighting, a letter stating this need and a description of the
lighting shall be provided to the City Council prior to approval. The
lighting, unless required by the FAA to be otherwise, must be diffused.



   (M)   Lights and other attachments. No antenna or tower shall have
affixed or attached to it in any way, except during time of repair or
installation, any lights, reflectors, flashers or other illuminating device,
except as required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC), nor shall any tower have constructed
on, or attached to, in any way, any platform, catwalk, crow’s nest or like
structure, except during periods of construction or repair.



   (N)   Accessory utility buildings. All utility buildings and
structures accessory to a tower shall be architecturally designed to blend in
with the surrounding environment and shall meet the minimum setback
requirements of the zoning district in which the tower site is located.
Ground mounted equipment shall be screened from view by suitable vegetation,
except where a design of non-vegetative screening better reflects and
complements the architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood.



   (O)   Maintenance requirements.



      (1)   The yard area in front of fences and walls shall be
trimmed and maintained in a neat and attractive manner.



      (2)   Repairs to damaged areas of walls or fences shall be
made within 30 days of sustaining said damage.



      (3)   Areas left in a natural state and vegetative screening
areas shall be properly maintained in a sightly and well-kept condition.



      (4)   Diseased, dying or dead vegetative screening elements
shall be removed and then replaced, at a minimum, with healthy plants of the
same size required when first planted.



   (P)    Abandoned or unused towers and antennas. Abandoned or unused
towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows.



      (1)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities
shall be removed within six months of cessation of operations at the site
unless a time extension is approved by the Planning Commission. In the event
that a tower is not removed within six months of cessation of operations at a
site, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by the city and the
costs of removal assessed against the property.



      (2)   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured
connection shall be removed within six months of the time of antenna
location. The replacement of portions of a tower previously removed requires
the issuance of a new conditional use permit.



   (Q)   Public safety telecommunication interference. Commercial
wireless telecommunications services shall not interfere with public safety
telecommunications. Before the introduction of new service or changes in
existing services, telecommunication providers shall notify the city at least
ten days in advance of any changes and allow the city to monitor interference
levels during the testing process.



   (R)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for
signs, other than warning or equipment information signs, is prohibited.



   (S)   Additional submittal requirements. In addition to information
listed elsewhere in this section, conditional use permit applications for
towers shall include the following supplemental information:



      (1)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional
engineer which:



         (a)   Describes the general tower height and design
including a cross-section and elevation;



         (b)   Documents the height above grade for all potential
mounting positions for co-located antennas and the minimum separation
distances between antennas. This information can be general in scope, with
specific documentation to be submitted with the building permit application;



         (c)   Describes the tower’s capacity, including the
number and type of antennas it can accommodate;



         (d)   Includes an engineer’s stamp, and registration
number and signature; and



         (e)   Additional information necessary to evaluate the
request.



      (2)   For all commercial towers, a letter of intent committing
the tower owner and his or her successors to allow the shared use of the
tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet reasonable terms and
conditions for shared use;



      (3)   If the tower exceeds 200 feet, a letter of approval from
the Federal Aviation Administration;



      (4)   A letter from the FAA if artificial lighting is deemed
necessary; and



      (5)   Recommendation for approval by the Municipal Airport
Commission.



   (T)   Satellite dishes. Satellite dishes greater than one meter in
diameter shall be allowed only by a conditional use permit in all districts.
Design plans shall include provisions for screening and shall be submitted
with the conditional use permit application.



   (U)   Small cell sites.



      (1)   Small cell site plan.



         (a)   Small cell submissions. The applicant shall submit
a preliminary site plan to the city, for review and approval. The applicant
shall also submit an application which shall include: (i) photographs or
accurate renderings, including correct colors and exact dimensions, of each
type of proposed small wireless facility: (ii) a statement signed by a
professional engineer licensed in the State of Minnesota stating that the
proposed facilities comply with all applicable Federal Communications
Commission regulations, including, without limitation, regulations pertaining
to the emission of radio frequency radiation; and (iii) such additional
information as the Planning Director may reasonably require in order to
determine whether the requirements of this section are met. The application
and site plan for the communication small cell shall be approved only if the
following minimum standards are met:



            1.   The communication small cells may encompass
multiple sites;



            2.   The communication small cells shall be
substantially concealed from view by means of painting, tinting, or use of
camouflage or stealth materials to match the surface of the building or other
structure to which they are affixed or by other suitable methods, such as by
flush-mounting or integration into the design elements of the building or
structure;



            3.   Electrical power and battery backup cabinets
shall, to the extent practicable, be roof-mounted or otherwise located so as
not to be visible from a public street or, where not practicable as
determined by the city, such equipment shall be appropriately screened by
landscaping or other means minimizing visibility from a public street;



            4.   The placement of small cells may be approved
by the city, provided the antenna meets the requirements of this section, and
after submittal and approval of all permits, applications, fees and
information identified in division (B) of this section. Small cell antennas
on a public structure or existing structures are allowed in all districts by
resolution approved by the city, without a conditional use permit. However,
all antenna installations must comply with the requirements of this section;
and



            5.   At such time that the communication small
cell ceases to be used for communications purposes for three consecutive
months, the applicant shall remove the communication small cell from the
property. If the applicant fails to remove the communication small cell
within 30 days of written notice from the Zoning Administrator, the Director
of Development and permits or designee, through his or her own agents or
employees, shall be authorized to remove the communication small cell and
assess all charges incurred in such removal on the applicant.



            6.   Special requirements based on whether
communication small cell is affixed to a building or pole:



               a.   Building-mounted:



                  i.   The communication small cell may
be attached to any building that is at least 20 feet in height as measured
from the ground level; and



                  ii.   When attached to such building,
the communication small cell shall be affixed at least 18 feet in height as
measured from the ground level.



               b.   Pole-mounted:



                  i.   The communication small cell
shall be mounted on a pole that supports an athletic field or parking lot
light, street light or utility line. Such pole shall be at least 15 feet in
height as measured from the ground level. Note: Fiberglass poles, poles for
traffic lights or traffic signal systems cannot be used and are prohibited
for the mounting of any antennas or telecommunications equipment;



                  ii.   Height restrictions. All small
cell equipment installations shall be in compliance with height restrictions
applicable to poles and other structures in certain overlay zoning districts.
In all other zoning areas small cell equipment shall not be installed at a
height exceeding 30 feet;



                  iii.   The communication small cell
shall not protrude outward more than two feet from the pole on which it is
mounted;



                  iv.   There shall be no more than one
communication small cell per pole;



                  v.   The antenna size does not exceed
the diameter or width of the pole on which it is mounted; and



                  vi.   Security. Construction for small
cell sites on existing utility poles must be installed in a manner that will
not allow the public to come into physical contact with the equipment or
create injury. Equipment must be mounted securely and include electrical
surge protection, safety cable connector locks, no sharp edges, or any other
potential hazards.



      (2)   Placement of small cell technology in the right-of-way.
The following standards shall apply for the placement of small cell
technology in the public right-of-way, or on a public road, city easement or
any other city property.



         (a)   The city will determine whether the location (and
any existing pole) identified by the applicant as a small cell site is within
the city right-of-way. If it is not, the request would be outside the scope
of the lease agreement as the city would not have authority to approve the
small cell site application. 



         (b)   In determining whether to allow the installation
of a small cell technology wireless support structure within the
right-of-way, the city shall consider the following factors and make a
determination if it is appropriate:



            1.   Demonstrated need for the small cell
technologies within the geographic area requested by a radio propagation
study in order to deliver adequate service;



            2.   Proof that all co-location sites in the area
of need are/were pursued and have been denied; or that there does not exist
the ability to co-locate using existing structures. The applicant must
demonstrate all actions taken to achieve co-location;



            3.   The character of the area in which the small
cell technology wireless support structure is requested, including evidence
of surrounding properties and uses;



            4.   Stealth technology, if any, proposed to be
utilized by the applicant, or proof that stealth technology is either:



               a.   Unnecessary; or



               b.   Cannot be used;



            5.   Proof that the proposed small cell technology
wireless support structure is the minimal physical installation that will
achieve the applicant's goals; and



            6.   The safety and aesthetic impact of any
proposed small cell technology wireless support structure, related accessory
equipment, and/or equipment compound.



      (3)   Ownership of the pole. The lessor will determine the
ownership of the pole identified for installation of small cell equipment.



      (4)   Site eligibility. Lessor shall determine whether a
requested city street light pole or the location for the installation for a
new pole is eligible as a small cell site based on space availability or
other considerations. In addition, lessor must determine whether public
safety considerations prevent eligibility of a street light pole as a small
cell site. Concerning a request to install a new pole, lessor shall determine
whether city policies and availability of right-of-way prevent the pole
installation at the requested location.



      (5)   Structural capacity. For any proposed installation on an
existing pole, the applicant must provide evidence that the pole has adequate
structural capacity to carry the additional loading from the proposed
installation. The city may retain the services of an independent technical
expert at the applicant's expense to review, evaluate, and provide an opinion
regarding the applicant's structural documentation.



      (6)   Historic preservation. All small cell site installations
on an historic building, site, or within an historic district shall be
stealth installations subject to the review of the Minnesota State Historic
Preservation Office (SHPO) in order to satisfy that the installations are
compatible with the regulations applicable to the historic building, site or
district. Lessee shall implement design concepts, and the use of camouflage
or stealth materials, as necessary in order to achieve compliance with SHPO
review, the city and other applicable regulations as amended. Further, lessee
acknowledges that under city regulations, all installations on public
rights-of-way are subject to review by SHPO. Prior to submitting a small cell
site application, lessee shall meet with SHPO to discuss any potential design
modifications appropriate for the installation.



      (7)   Review criteria. All small cell site applications
requesting access to a city street light pole must include a load bearing
study to determine whether the attachment of small cell equipment may proceed
without pole modification or whether the installation will require pole
re-enforcement or replacement. If pole re-enforcement or replacement is
necessary, applicant shall provide engineering design and specification
drawings demonstrating the proposed alteration to the pole. Engineering
documents will be reviewed to determine:



         (a)   Compliance with contractual requirements under
this lease agreement;



         (b)   No interference with city public safety radio
system, traffic signal light system, or other communications components;



         (c)   Inclusion of appropriate design of stealth
components necessary to comply with historic preservation requirements or
aesthetic design elements for downtown attachments; and



         (d)   Compliance with city pole attachment regulations
for street light poles, including replacement of utility electric meter with
dual meters.



      (8)   Determine compliance with any other applicable
requirements. As appropriate, the city or their designee shall require lessee
to make design modifications in order to comply with applicable contractual,
regulatory, or legal requirements. Failure to make the requested design
modifications shall result in an incomplete small cell site application,
which may not be processed under this lease agreement.



      (9)   Approval of application. Upon finding that the small
cell site application is complete and in compliance with all applicable
requirements as outlined above, the city shall consider such small cell site
application. The approval of the small cell site application requesting to
attach to a city light pole, or to install a new pole, shall authorize lessee
to proceed to obtain an excavation permit from the city. Lessee shall comply
with the requirements and pay all appropriate Minnesota standard promulgated
ROW permit fees. Upon obtaining a ROW permit, lessee may proceed to install
the small cell equipment in coordination with any affected city departments.
Approval of a small cell site application related to the use of a utility
pole, or a pole owned by any other third-party, shall authorize lessee to
proceed with attachment process applicable to the pole owner and in
accordance with the pole owner's regulations proceed to obtain a ROW Permit.
Again, lessee shall proceed with the small cell equipment installation in
coordination with any affected city departments. Upon completion of the
installation, lessee shall notify the city, or their designee, in writing and
provide a picture of said installation to be included in the small cell site
application records.



      (10)   Repair of public right-of-way. The tenant must repair,
at its sole cost and expense, any damage (including, but not limited to,
subsidence, cracking, erosion, collapse, weakening, or loss of lateral
support) to city streets, sidewalks, walks, curbs, gutters, trees, parkways,
street light poles, utility lines and systems, underground utility lines and
systems, or sewer lines and systems, that results from any activity performed
in connection with the permittee's installation, operation, or maintenance of
a wireless telecommunications facility. In the event the tenant fails to
complete said repair within the number of days stated on a written notice
from the city, the city may cause said repair to be completed and invoice the
tenant for all costs incurred by the city as a result of such repair. The
tenant must promptly pay any costs so invoiced.



   (V)   Effective date and applicability to existing facilities. All
wireless telecommunications facilities existing on or before July 1, 2009
shall be allowed to continue as they presently exist, as legally permitted
non-conforming uses. Such facilities shall be used, or repaired without
having to comply with the section. Any material modification, including
changes that could result in interference, additional structural loading or
aesthetics of an existing telecommunications facility will require review and
permitting in compliance with this section.



(2004 Code, § 154.119)  (Ord. 00-286, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 09-0532,
passed 8-11-2009; Ord. 16-0759, passed 7-12-2016)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.120  SWIMMING POOLS.



   (A)   No pool or spa may be constructed beneath overhead utility
lines of any type or above underground utility lines of any type.



   (B)   No swimming pool or spa may be built within ten feet of any
side or rear lot line, within six feet of any principal structure or within
any required front yard.



   (C)   Construction of a swimming pool or spa may not be started
without having the same fully enclosed with a fence, which may be temporary
and portable, not less than four feet in height.



   (D)   No swimming pool or spa may be constructed within 20 feet of
any on-site sewer system facility.



   (E)   No swimming pool may be finished without completely enclosing
it with a permanent wall or fence of the non-climbing type so as to be
impenetrable by toddlers, affording no external hand holds or foot holds, and
a minimum of four feet in height. No integral part of any swimming pool shall
constitute compliance with this division (E). All enclosures of this type
shall be equipped with a self-locking and self-closing gate. The locking
device shall be located within 12 inches of the top of the fence and opened
by key only. The opening between the bottom of the fence or gate and the
ground or other surface shall no be more than three inches.



   (F)   No swimming pool or spa shall be constructed or maintained
which is not enclosed within a fence or wall as described in the foregoing
divisions or a latchable cover. The cover shall be constructed of a material
which cannot be penetrated by toddlers.



   (G)   No swimming pool or spa may be constructed without a building
permit.



   (H)   No outdoor pool lighting may be maintained which is permitted
to spill or shine upon properties adjacent thereto which are not under the
same ownership.



   (I)   All pools constructed prior to the effective date of this
section shall substantially comply with this section within 60 days from the
effective date hereof. Owners of pools constructed prior to the effective
date of this section may make a written request for an exception.



(2004 Code, § 154.120)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 89-06, passed
9-26-1989)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.121  RELOCATING STRUCTURES.



   A building, including an accessory building, which is proposed to be
moved from one land parcel to another land parcel, shall require a
conditional use permit and a building permit. Any relocated building not
exceeding 200 square feet requires only a land use permit.



(2004 Code, § 154.121)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.122  FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; STORAGE OR TRANSFER.



   There shall be no storage or transfer of Class I or Class II flammable
liquid, including filling of underground storage tanks, within 50 feet of any
dwelling.



(2004 Code, § 154.122)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.123  POLE BUILDINGS/TUBE FRAME STRUCTURES/TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.



   (A)   Pole buildings in Commercial, Business and Industrial Zoning
Districts require a conditional use permit. Pole buildings are regulated by
§ 154.026 for Residential Zoning Districts.



   (B)   (1)   Buildings which are used for storage, are classified
as an “S” occupancy by building code, and have a construction method that
is other than light frame, as defined below, shall be located in a commercial
or industrial zoning district and shall require a conditional use permit.
(This shall not include 200 square foot buildings or smaller.)



      (2)   LIGHT-FRAME CONSTRUCTION is a building technique based
around structural members, usually called studs, which provide a stable frame
to which interior and exterior wall coverings are attached, and covered by a
roof comprising horizontal joists or sloping rafters covered by various
sheathing materials.



   (C)   Additional review criteria for reviewing pole buildings/tube
frame structures/temporary buildings:



      (1)   Consideration of neighborhood character: Is the building
similar to other structures in the area or on the property in question? Is
the building of similar height, scale and density as other buildings?



      (2)   Is the structure entirely visible from the street on
which the property is located?



      (3)   Is the building to be used only for the purposes of
storage?



      (4)   Are there factors that would be impacted that would be
considered negative for adjacent land owners, such as site drainage,
topography changes, restrictions on light or air and the like?



(2004 Code, § 154.123)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 05-0420, passed
11-8-2005; Ord. 16-751, passed 2-9-2016)



§ 154.124  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.



   (A)   Compliance required. No land or building in any district shall
be used or occupied in any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious,
noxious or otherwise objectionable fire, explosive or other hazard; noise or
vibration; smoke, dust, odor or other form of air pollution; heat, cold,
dampness, electrical or other substance, condition or element in such a
manner, or in such an amount, as to adversely affect the surrounding area of
adjoining premises; provided that, any use permitted or not expressly
prohibited by this chapter may be undertaken and maintained if it conforms to
the regulations of this section limiting objectionable elements at the point
of the determination of their existence.



   (B)   Points of measurement. The determination of the existence of
any objectionable elements shall be made at the location of the use creating
the same and at any points where the existence of these elements may be more
apparent; provided, however, that, the measurements necessary for enforcement
of performance standards set forth in this section shall be taken at property
line boundaries.



   (C)   Health and safety emission standards. The following
provisions, standards and specifications shall apply.



      (1)   Fire and explosion hazards. All activities involving,
and all storage of inflammable and explosive materials shall be provided at
convenient places, with adequate safety devices against the hazard of fire
and explosion and adequate firefighting and fire suppression equipment and
devices standard in the industry. Burning of waste materials in open fires
shall be prohibited at any place. The relevant provisions of state and local
laws and regulations shall also apply.



      (2)   Radioactivity or electric disturbances. No activities
shall be permitted which emit dangerous radiation at any point, or electrical
disturbance adversely affecting the operation at any point of any equipment
other than that of the creator of the disturbance. Radioactive emissions
shall be further subject to applicable federal regulations.



      (3)   Noise.



         (a)   At the points of measurement, the sound pressure
level of noise radiated from a facility at night time, during the hours of
10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., shall not exceed 50 decibels (sound pressure level
decibels re 0.0002 dynes/cm) or the average sound level of the street traffic
noise nearest the noise generator, whichever is the higher, in any octave
band of frequency above 300 cycles per second. The sound pressure level shall
be measured with a sound level meter (American Standard Sound Level Meters
for Measurement of Noise and Other Sounds, 224.3 - 1944) and an octave band
analyzer (American Standard Specification for an Octave-Band Filter Set for
the Analysis of Noise and Other Sounds, 224.10 - 1953) that conform to the
specifications published by the American Standards Association. Noise shall
be so muffled or otherwise controlled as not to become objectionable due to
intermittence, beat frequency, impulsive character (hammering and the like),
periodic character (humming, screech and the like) or shrillness.



         (b)   For facilities which radiate noise only during a
normal daytime working shift, the allowable decibel level given above shall
be increased 20 decibels, or ten decibels above the average sound level of
the street traffic noise nearest the noise generator, whichever is the
higher. Sirens, whistles, bells and the like which are maintained and
utilized solely to serve a public purpose (such as fire and air raid warning
sirens) are excluded from the above regulations.



      (4)   Vibration. No ground vibration shall be permitted which
is discernible without instruments on property owned by another party.



      (5)   Smoke. No emission shall be permitted at any point, from
any chimney or otherwise, of visible gray smoke of a shade equal to or darker
than No. 2 on the Power’s Micro-Ringelmann Chart (published by McGraw-Hill
Publishing Company, Inc., and copyrighted 1954, being a direct facsimile
reduction of the standard Ringelmann chart as issued by the U.S. Bureau of
Mines), except that visible gray smoke of a shade equal to No. 3 of that
chart may be emitted for four minutes in any 30 minutes. These provisions
applicable to visible gray smoke shall also apply to visible smoke of a
different color but with an apparently equivalent capacity.



      (6)   Odors. Odors must be in compliance with State Pollution
Control Agency standards.



      (7)   Fly ash, dust, fumes, vapors, gases and other forms of
air pollution. No emission shall be permitted which can cause any damage to
health, to animals, vegetation or other forms of property, or which can cause
any excessive soiling, at any point; any solid or liquid particles in
concentrations exceeding 0.3 grains per cubic foot of the conveying gas at
any point. For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting from
combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature of
500°F and 50% excess air.



      (8)   Glare. No direct or sky-reflected glare, whether from
floodlights or from high-temperature processes such as combustion or welding
or otherwise, so as to be visible at the points of measurement shall be
permitted. This restriction shall not apply to signs otherwise permitted by
the provisions of this chapter.



      (9)   Heat. Every use and activity shall be so operated that
it does not raise the ambient air temperature on property owned by another
party more than 1°F.



      (10)   Liquid or solid wastes. No discharge at any point into
any public sewer, private sewage disposal, stream or into the ground, except
in accord with standards approved by the State Department of Health or
standards equivalent to those approved by that Department for similar uses,
of any materials of a nature or temperature as can contaminate any water
supply or otherwise cause the emission of dangerous or offensive elements,
shall be allowed.



   (D)   State standards. The State Pollution Control Standards shall
take precedence over the above regulations, except where city standards are
higher. Current state regulations shall be kept on file in the office of the
Zoning Enforcement Officer, and shall be the determining standard in
resolving questions regarding performance standards.



   (E)   Compliance. In order to ensure compliance with the performance
standards set forth above, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, with approval of
the City Manager, may require the owner or operator for  any use to have
made investigations and tests as may be required to show adherence to the
performance standards. The investigations and tests as are required to be
made shall be carried out by an independent testing organization as may be
selected by the city. Where compliance is determined, incurred costs shall be
divided equally between the use and the city; where a violation exists, the
use shall remit full payment for all incurred costs.



(2004 Code, § 154.124)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999



§ 154.125  ADDRESSES; STREETS AND BUILDING NUMBERS.



   (A)   Street identification. All rights-of-way running generally in
a northerly or southerly direction shall be identified as streets, while all
rights-of-way running generally in an easterly or westerly direction shall be
identified as avenues. Cul-de-sacs shall be identified as courts or circles.
All rights-of-way shall be identified with directional calls as well.



   (B)   Administration. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible
for addressing buildings and identifying streets. The Administrator shall
consult with the Chief of Police, the City Engineer and the U.S. Postmaster
assigned to the city district in the process of addressing buildings and
identifying streets. Any change in existing street names, other than by
addition of descriptive terms such as “street” or “avenue” or
directional designations, shall be accomplished by resolution of the City
Council.



   (C)   Property owner responsibility. The property owner shall number
each principal structure located on the property using numbers which contrast
with the background and are at least four inches in height and displayed in a
fashion so as to be plainly visible and legible from the street. Accessory
structures need not be addressed. Condominiums, cooperatives, duplexes and
other buildings where units are individually owned shall be individually
addressed. Apartment buildings and other rental structures shall be assigned
a single address with each unit thereafter receiving a number designation in
addition to the street address. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to issue addresses in circumstances not covered by or inconsistent
with this section, for good cause shown. Any property owner aggrieved by the
decision of the Zoning Administrator may appeal the decision to the City
Council.



(2004 Code, § 154.125)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)  Penalty, see §
154.999




SIGNS




§ 154.140  PURPOSE.



   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards for the
use and display of signs. It is recognized that signs serve an important
function and, therefore, reasonable and adequate display of signs is
permitted under the provisions of this subchapter. At the same time, this
subchapter recognizes that there is a definite need to regulate the display
of signs as signs utilize the visual element of the public  right-of-way to
bring messages to the public. Limitations and standards are established
herein consistent with the type of district and the uses and activities in
the district.



   (B)   Any sign placed on land or on a building for the purposes of
identification or protection of the same or for advertising a use conducted
thereon or therein shall be deemed to be accessory and incidental to that
land, building or use. It is the purpose of this subchapter to place
limitations on the display of all signs as will assure that they will be
appropriate to the land, building or use to which they are appurtenant and be
adequate, but not excessive, for the intended purpose of identification,
protection or advertisement.



(2004 Code, § 154.135)  (Ord. 01-296, passed 8-14-2001)



§ 154.141  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



   Except as otherwise provided by this subchapter, signs, as defined in
§ 154.004 of this chapter, where permitted, shall comply with the following
requirements.



   (A)   Location. No sign shall be placed in or extended over any
public right-of-way in any district, except the C-3 Downtown Business
District. Signs in the street right-of-way shall be eight feet above grade
line. In no case shall signs create any traffic sight hazards.



      (1)   Pre-existing signs which violate required setbacks
and/or encroachment of rights-of-way shall be considered as non-conforming
structures.



      (2)   No sign shall be erected to project above the roof or
parapet wall line of any building, except by conditional use permit.



      (3)   Wall signs integral with, painted on or attached flat
against the face of the building or structure shall not extend more than 24
inches from the structure.



      (4)   No temporary sign shall be attached to a light standard
or the supporting pylon of a freestanding sign.



   (B)   Measuring. For multi-faced signs, each display face shall be
measured except in the case of two-sided signs that are identical on both
sides.



   (C)   Traffic hazard. No sign shall be erected near or at any
intersection of any streets in a manner so as to obstruct free and clear
vision, or at any location where by reason of position, shape or color, it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device.



   (D)   Marquees, canopies and awnings. Signs attached to a marquee
shall not extend beyond the fascia or vertical surface of the marquee. No
sign or sign structure, except as mentioned above, shall be placed on the
roof of a marquee. No advertising shall be placed on any awning or canopy,
except the name of the owner and/or business conducted on the premises.



   (E)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 27
feet in height above the ground on which they rest. No part of any sign may
be within five feet of any property line.



   (F)   Roof signs. Roof-mounted signs are not permitted.



   (G)   Wall signs. Wall signs placed or painted on the exterior walls
of buildings shall not extend beyond 24 inches of the wall surface. Wall
signs attached to and projecting from the exterior walls of buildings shall
not extend beyond 24 inches of the wall surface and shall not cover more than
15% of that business’s wall.



   (H)   Illumination. The light from any illuminated sign or from any
light source, including interior of a building, shall be so shaded, shielded
or directed that the light intensity of brightness shall not adversely affect
surrounding or facing residential districts, or adversely affect safe vision
of operators of vehicles moving on public or private roads, highways or
parking areas. Light shall not shine or reflect on or into residential
structures.



   (I)   Maintenance of signs. All signs shall be kept in good repair
and avoid a weather condition resulting in illegibility, missing parts, words
and the like.



   (J)   Tenant lists on freestanding signs. If a freestanding business
center sign lists the names of three or more individual tenants:



      (1)   The total area of the business center name, plus
tenants’ names, cannot exceed the total allowable area of a freestanding
sign;



      (2)   Tenants’ names must be displayed in the same typeface,
method of illumination and method of display (panel vs. individual letters)
as one another;



      (3)   The business center name and the tenants’ names must
be produced in the same materials, method of illumination and method of
display (panel vs. individual letters) as one another; and



      (4)   Tenants’ names must be arranged in a rectangular
grouping which does not extend horizontally beyond the edges of the business
center name area.



   (K)   Major tenant logos on a freestanding sign. If a business
center wishes to display the logotypes of its major tenant(s) on its
freestanding business center identification sign(s):



      (1)   The total area of the various elements of the
freestanding sign may not exceed the total allowable area of a freestanding
sign;



      (2)   No more than two tenants may be displayed in this manner
on each freestanding business center identification sign;



      (3)   The tenant logotypes and business center name (if
included) shall be displayed on a single sign structure; and



      (4)   The tenant signs shall be designed and arranged to
appear as an integrated whole. Namely, the proportions of the two signs shall
be approximately equal; the materials, method of illumination and method of
display (individual letters vs. panel) should be the same; and both signs
should be arranged within a rectangular area.



   (L)   Grouping small wall signs. When a number of small wall signs
are grouped together, such as at the entrance of an interior mini-mall, those
signs must be arranged in a framework or common display system which gives
the impression of a single, larger sign. Type styles may differ but the
method of construction and illumination and the display format (individual
letters vs. panel) must be the same.



   (M)   Other identification signs in business centers.



      (1)   If a canopy or other building overhang is used, each
business may have an under-canopy identification sign not exceeding four
square feet.



      (2)   Each business may have an identification sign on its
door not exceeding three square feet.



   (N)   Gas station canopy signs. Signage on canopies shall be limited
to 10% of the total square footage of the canopy (upper perimeter of the
canopy structure). In no case shall the total square footage of the canopy
and/or total gas station signage exceed 250 square feet.



   (O)   Dynamic signs. Dynamic signs may be permitted as follows.



      (1)   Dynamic signs are allowed as conditional uses in the C-1
Zoning District.



      (2)   Dynamic signs are allowed in the C-2, I-1, I-2, C-4,
C-5, GT and I/C Zoning Districts and in the C-3 Zoning District if they are
located outside of the Main Street Area District as described in §
154.142(E).



      (3)   Dynamic displays may occupy no more than 66% of the sign
area.



      (4)   Dynamic signs are not allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
R-5 districts or in the Main Street Area District of the  C-3 Zoning
District, except as described in division (O)(14) below.



      (5)   There shall be no dynamic signs within 100 feet of a
residential zoning district.



      (6)   There shall be no dynamic signs in the front setback
area within 20 feet of a street intersection (as measured from intersecting
right-of-way lines), except where lighting for such sign is indirect or
diffused and in no way constitutes a traffic hazard.



      (7)   No dynamic sign may be erected that, by reason of
position, shape, movement or color interferes with the proper functioning of
a traffic sign, signal or which otherwise constitutes a traffic hazard.



      (8)   Dynamic signs shall not cause direct glare, nor become a
distraction.



      (9)   Dynamic displays shall have a minimum display or loop
time of six seconds before the display changes.



      (10)   A display of time, date or temperature must remain for
at least the minimal allowable display time for the district in which it is
located before changing to a different display, but the time, date or
temperature information itself may change no more often than once every three
seconds.



      (11)   The lamp wattage and luminance level in candelas per
square meter (Nits) shall be provided at the time of permit application.



      (12)   Dynamic signs shall not exceed 5,000 Nits between the
hours of civil sunrise and civil sunset and shall not exceed 500 Nits between
the hours of civil sunset and civil sunrise.



      (13)   Dynamic displays must be designed and equipped to
freeze the device in one position if a malfunction occurs. The displays must
also be equipped with a means to immediately discontinue the display if it
malfunctions, and the sign owner must immediately stop the dynamic display
when notified by the city that it is not complying with the standards of this
section.



      (14)   Dynamic signs which inform the public of time and/or
temperature, as well as messages that consist of public announcements and the
like, of a non-advertising nature are allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and
R-5 Zoning Districts. The dynamic signs in these districts shall be scrolling
in nature with no flashing or other similar special effects. These signs
shall have a black background with a singular color of lettering and/or
numerics. The characters used shall be standard letters and numbers only.



(2004 Code, § 154.136)  (Ord. 01-296, passed 8-14-2001; Ord. 10-0661,
passed 10-12-2010; Ord. 17-776, passed 9-12-2017)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.142  SIGN STANDARDS BY DISTRICT.



   (A)   General. The following sign standards by zoning district shall
apply to every existing zoning district and new zoning district hereafter
created unless otherwise expressly provided in those zoning districts. Only
signs as described herein shall be permitted. Municipal signs are exempt.



   (B)   Signs permitted in all zoning districts. Subject to the other
conditions of this chapter, the following signs shall be permitted in any
zoning district within the city. Signs in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3)
and (B)(4) below shall be considered temporary. These signs and those
described in division (B)(6) below shall be allowed to be placed in any
required yard setback, not including boulevards or public rights-of-way.



      (1)   Construction signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign
facing each bordering street, identifying all parties engaged in the
construction of a building; provided that, the sign shall not exceed 35
square feet in area, does not obstruct vision in the public right-of-way and
is removed within 30 days following occupancy of the building.



      (2)   Real estate signs. One non-illuminated real estate sign
not over 5% of the wall to which it is attached advertising the sale, rental
or lease of only the building or premises on which it is located, or 12
square feet per side if freestanding.



      (3)   Non-commercial signs. All non-commercial signs of any
size may be posted from August 1 in a state general election year or
municipal election year until ten days following the election, and in the
case of a special election, from 60 days before the special election to ten
days after a special election. No non-commercial sign shall be placed on any
city property or in any public right-of-way, including boulevards adjacent to
city streets.



      (4)   Portable/temporary signs.



         (a)   Portable/temporary signs are allowed by permit.
Portable/temporary signs may not be displayed for more than seven days and
must be removed immediately after the event advertised. A deposit (amount to
be determined by City Council ordinance) is required and will be returned
only if the sign is removed within seven days of the permit date. The
applicant must reclaim the deposit when the sign is removed. If the sign
remains after seven days, the city will utilize the deposit to remove the
sign.



         (b)   Portable/temporary signs may not be placed in the
public right-of-way, be flashing, have moving parts or be fastened to any
pylon or light pole.



         (c)   Portable/temporary sign permits will not be issued
to a property more than three times within a calendar year.



      (5)   Owner-occupant sign. One residential name sign not to
exceed two square feet per sign side in area, identifying only the name of
the owner or occupant of a residential building.



      (6)   Home occupation sign. One non-illuminated identification
sign, not to exceed four square feet per sign side in area, for the following
permitted uses: resident professional offices, home occupations and boarding
or lodging houses.



      (7)   Directional and private traffic-control signs.
Directional and private traffic-control signs indicating traffic movement
onto a premise, or within a premise, not exceeding six square feet of surface
area for each sign, are permitted. No advertising message may be incorporated
on these signs. These signs shall not be located in the public right-of-way
unless approved by the City Council.



      (8)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs to direct traffic to
businesses during road construction are allowed as permitted by City Council
only.



      (9)   Billboards. Billboards, as defined in § 154.004 of this
chapter, are not permitted.



      (10)   Off-premise signs. Off-premise signs are not permitted.



   (C)   Signs permitted in residential districts. Subject to the other
conditions of this chapter, the following signs shall be permitted in
residential districts:



      (1)   Subdivision plat signs. Temporary signs advertising a
new subdivision plat; provided, the signs do not exceed 48 square feet in
aggregate surface area per sign side, identify only the plat in which they
are located, are non-illuminated and are erected only at dedicated street
entrances to the plat.



These signs shall be removed if construction of subdivision improvements is
not in progress on the plat within 60 days following the date of the sign
erection or as soon as 80% of the lots are developed and sold;



      (2)   Club, lodge, office signs. One illuminated or
non-illuminated identification sign not to exceed 40 square feet per sign
side in area for the following uses: clubs, lodges, fraternities and
professional offices where permitted;



      (3)   Civic and religious organizations and other permitted
non-residential uses. One illuminated or non-illuminated identification sign
or bulletin board not to exceed a total of 40 square feet in area for the
following uses: public schools, parochial schools, colleges, public
libraries, museums, social and recreational buildings, parks, playgrounds,
hospitals, sanitariums, charitable and religious institutions, churches,
cemeteries and governmental office buildings;



      (4)   Development signs. Permanent signs of up to 20 square
feet identifying a residential subdivision or business park may be allowed if
well landscaped and built with colors and materials compatible with the
primary structure(s); and



      (5)   Vacancy signs. Vacancy signs within residential
districts are limited to four square feet.



   (D)   Signs permitted in commercial and industrial districts. The
following signs shall be permitted in the C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, I-1, I-2 and
I/C Districts:



      (1)   Signs as permitted in residential districts. Signs as
permitted and regulated for the uses in the residential districts;



      (2)   Business signs.



         (a)   Within the C-1 Neighborhood Convenience Commercial
District, the square footage of sign space per lot shall not exceed two
square feet per front foot of building. The least width of a lot for purposes
of this section shall be the front. No individual sign surface shall exceed
50 square feet. Two or more smaller signs may be arranged and integrated so
as to cause a sign surface not exceeding 100 square feet. No sign shall
extend in height more than two feet above the highest outside wall or parapet
of any principal structure.



         (b)   Within the C-2 Automotive Service Commercial
District, the aggregate square footage of sign space per lot shall not exceed
four square feet per front foot of building. No individual sign surface shall
exceed 100 square feet.



         (c)   1.   Within the C-4 and I/C Districts, name
plate signs and business signs are permitted; provided, the aggregate square
footage of sign per lot shall not exceed the sum of four square feet perfront
foot of building. On corner lots, two front footage calculations are
allowable provided both sides contain a major building entrance. The maximum
height of a freestanding sign shall not exceed 27 feet.



            2.   Gas station signage shall be limited to a
calculation equal to two square feet per front foot of lot, but in no case
shall exceed 250 square feet of aggregate signage. Corner lots may use both
sides in the calculation if each side has a major site entrance, but in no
case shall exceed the maximum.



         (d)   Within any I-1 and I-2 Industrial Districts, name
plate signs and business signs are permitted provided the aggregate square
footage of sign space per lot shall not exceed the sum of four square feet
per front foot of lot of this type, with the maximum allowable being 600
square feet.



         (e)   Where a building does not cover the full area of
the property, signs may be freestanding or group supported. A minimum of 40
feet of lot frontage shall be required to permit a freestanding sign. The
maximum size of any freestanding sign shall not exceed 80 square feet per
sign side.



      (3)   Window signs. Signs may be placed in the window area of
business operations subject to a limitation of 40% coverage of the total
glass area for the main entrance of the operation.



      (4)   Banner signs. One or more banners not exceeding two
square feet per front linear foot of building are allowed on the primary side
of building for no more than 15 consecutive days at a time. Applicants are
eligible for three 15-day permits per calendar year.



         (a)   Eligibility for banner advertising. Before
requesting permission to advertise using a banner, please make note of the
following:



            1.   You must contact the Planning and Zoning
Department at the city to apply for a permit.



            2.   The banner must meet the definition in §
154.004 of this chapter.



         (b)   Banner display information.



            1.   A banner may describe an event, sale or
promotion taking place.



            2.   A banner is not intended to replace permanent
building signage.



            3.   Three banner permits will be allowed per year.



            4.   Each banner will be allowed for no more than
15 days.



            5.   Banners must be removed when the 15-day
permit is expired.



            6.   Banners are not allowed in public
right-of-way or off-premise from primary business.



            7.   Single-day event banner signs for non-profit
organizations are exempt from the banner sign ordinance.



         (c)   Obtaining banner sign permit applications.



            1.   Permits may be obtained from the Planning and
Zoning Department at the city.



            2.   The form must be completed and signed by the
business owner.



            3.   The application must be approved and signed
by the Planning Department before the banner may be displayed.



            4.   The banner sign ordinance will take effect on
4-19-2011. All banners must comply with the regulations at that time. No
“grandfathering” is permitted.



         (d)   Specifications of the banner sign. One or more
banners not exceeding two square feet per front linear foot of building are
allowed on the primary side of the building.




      (5)   Sandwich board signs.




         (a)   Eligibility for sandwich board advertising. Before
requesting permission to advertise using a sandwich board, please make note
of the following.



            1.   The applicant has contacted the Planning and
Zoning Department at the city to apply for a permit.



            2.   The sandwich board must meet the definition
in § 154.003 of this chapter.



         (b)   Sandwich board display information.



            1.   A sandwich board may describe an event, sale,
special, hours or promotion taking place.



            2.   A sandwich board is not intended to replace
permanent building signage.



            3.   Sandwich boards are available for use during
every month of the year.



         (c)   Obtaining sandwich board permit applications.



            1.   Permits may be obtained from the Planning and
Zoning Department at the city.



            2.   The form must be completed and signed by the
business owner.



            3.   All necessary paperwork must be turned in to
and signed by the Planning Department at least one week prior to the first
day of display.



            4.   The cost of the permit application shall be
determined by City Council ordinance.



            5.   A sketch of the sandwich board dimensions,
content and location of the sandwich board must be attached to the
application.



            6.   The application must be approved and signed
by the Planning Department before the sandwich board may be displayed.



            7.   Each business owner is responsible for
attaching a copy of the approved permit to the sandwich board. Sandwich
boards without permits will be disposed of at owner’s expense. Only one
sandwich board sign is allowed per business and is not transferable.



            8.   The sandwich board sign permit would be valid
for one calendar year beginning January 1, and ending December 31. (For
example, if the permit is acquired in July 2002, it would expire 12-31-2002.)



            9.   The sandwich board ordinance will take effect
on 6-1-2003. All sandwich boards must comply with the regulations at that
time. No “grandfathering” is permitted.



            10.   Business owners must sign a disclaimer for
use of the public right-of-way which indemnifies the government of any
liability, if the sign is to be located in the right-of-way.



            11.   The business owner must provide yearly
certificate of insurance which covers liabilities for the signage placement
area. The city must be a named insured on the policy.



         (d)   Specifications of the sandwich board.



            1.   The sandwich board may be up to seven square
feet in size per side.



            2.   The sandwich board may only take up three
feet of sidewalk, and shall not be set in the middle of the sidewalk if in
the C-3 area.



            3.   The sandwich board may only be displayed
during regular business hours.



            4.   Sandwich boards must be weighted down or
removed if winds gust to 20 mph.



         (e)   Displaying approved sandwich boards.



            1.   A copy of the sandwich board permit must be
attached to the board.



            2.   City staff may move/remove sandwich boards
for municipal purposes (for example, snow removal, traffic issues,
maintenance and the like).



            3.   The sandwich board must be removed over night
to prevent theft or vandalism. The boards must also be removed if there is
any snow accumulation. (The board may not be replaced until the snow is
removed.)



   (E)   Signs permitted in the Main Street area district. Signage in
the Main Street area, which is defined as the area located between the east
side of Franklin Avenue from the Crow River to Fourth Avenue SW and the west
side of Hassan Street from the Crow River to Fourth Avenue SE, shall be
subject to the following additional requirements. Signage shall be designed
to enhance and complement the character of buildings within the district. All
new signs, or the replacement, alteration, painting and so forth of an
existing sign, require a sign permit application and may require review by
the Downtown Design Review Committee if the sign does not specifically meet
these requirements.



      (1)   Size and placement.



         (a)   Within the Main Street area, name and business
signs are permitted; provided, the aggregate square footage of sign per lot
shall not exceed the sum of two square feet per front linear foot of
building. On corner lots, the allowable square footage on the side exposure
will be the same as the front; provided that, side contains a major building
entrance. Where the sign consists of any combination of individual letters,
panels, numbers, figures, illustrations, logos or of a line or lines, to form
display or sign, the area of the sign shall be computed using the outside
dimensions of the various words, figures, numbers or illustrations composing
the entire sign. For multi-faced signs, each face shall be measured, except
in the case of a sign with two identical sides.



         (b)   Signs shall be positioned so that they are an
integral design feature of the building, which means that signs shall help
define and enhance the architectural features of the building and shall be
placed so that they do not destroy architectural details such as, but not
limited to, stone arches, glass transom panels or decorative brickwork.



         (c)   No sign shall be placed to project above the roof
or parapet wall line of a building except by conditional use permit.



         (d)   Signs may be placed only in the horizontal lintel
sign space or within window glass, or on the awnings. In buildings that do
not have a traditional lintel sign area, signs shall be placed no higher than
36 inches above the building openings.



         (e)   Wall signs shall not extend more than 24 inches
from an exterior wall surface and shall not cover more than 15% of that
business’s wall. Projecting signs are allowed. Projecting signs shall not
exceed 16 square feet in area, projecting more than four feet into the public
right-of-way and shall not be lower than eight feet above the public
sidewalk. No sign shall create any traffic sight hazard.



         (f)   All signs are to be placed within 60 days of the
issuance of the sign permit and be kept in good repair and avoid a weather
condition resulting in illegibility, missing parts or words and the like.



         (g)   Marquees, canopies and awnings. Signs attached to
a marquee shall not extend beyond the vertical surface of the marquee. No
sign shall be placed on the roof of a marquee. Only the name of the owner and
business conducted on the premises may be placed on any awning or canopy.
Internally lighted awnings or canopies are not permitted. Awnings and
canopies must be made of canvas or a similar product, plastic awnings are
prohibited. Awnings shall not project more than four feet into the public
right-of-way and not be lower than eight feet above the public sidewalk,
unless they are retractable.



      (2)   Lettering. Lettering styles shall be legible and relate
to the character of the property’s use. Raised letters are highly
encouraged. No sign shall contain more than two lettering styles. Franchise
logo signs meeting all other ordinance requirements are permitted. Letter
height shall be no more than 75% of the lintel height.



      (3)   Colors. Sign colors shall blend with the building facade
to which the sign is attached and be compatible with the property’s use. No
more than two letter colors are permitted and, for this purpose, black and
white are not considered colors. No more than four colors shall be used for
the entire sign, unless authenticity requires minimal use of additional
colors.



      (4)   Message. The sign message shall be legible and relate to
the nature of the use. These requirements may be accomplished through the use
of words, pictures, names, symbols and logos.



      (5)   Illumination.



         (a)   External illumination of signs is permitted.
Lighted signs shall emit a continuous white light that prevents direct light
from shining onto the street.



         (b)   Backlit plastic panel signs are not permitted. if
they are designed in character with the era of the original building
construction. Backlit individual letters are permitted.



         (c)   Exposed external conduit wiring is not permitted,
unless a special hardship exists and it is approved by the Downtown Design
Review Committee.



         (d)   Neon or similar lighting meeting all other
ordinance requirements is permitted. Neon or similar lights shall emit a
continuous light.



         (e)   All moving electronic signs must be approved by
the Downtown Design Review Committee.



      (6)   Freestanding signs. All freestanding signs in the C-3
District shall be located, sized and landscaped so that they do not obscure
the view of adjacent properties. All freestanding signs shall conform to all
sections of this chapter. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 27 feet in
height and must be set back at least five feet from any property line.
Regulations for tenant lists and major tenant logos on freestanding signs are
set forth in § 154.141(J) and (K) of this chapter.



      (7)   Signs for pedestrian traffic. A sign in addition to that
otherwise allowed in this section is permitted. The sign shall be no larger
than six square feet (three feet maximum on each side) and be placed so the
bottom of the sign has no less than six feet, eight inches of clearance. This
type of sign shall be allowed to project two feet into the public
right-of-way. The square footage of pedestrian signs shall be deducted from
the total allowable sign area for that building. Pedestrian signs shall
conform to all sections of this subchapter.



      (8)   Rear building signs. Signs shall be allowed on the rear
of a building. The square footage of rear building signs shall be subject to
the same requirements as front building signs.



      (9)   Signs on exterior walls. Signs shall not be painted on
an exterior wall of any building or structure.



      (10)   Murals. Murals require review by the Downtown Design
Review Committee and an approved conditional use permit by the City Council.



      (11)   Banners. One or more banners not exceeding two square
feet per front linear foot of building are allowed on the primary side of the
building for no more than 15 consecutive days at a time. Applicants are
eligible for three 15-day permits per calendar year.



         (a)   Eligibility for banner advertising. Before
requesting permission to advertise using a banner, please make note of the
following.



            1.   The applicant must contact the Planning and
Zoning Department at the city to apply for a permit.



            2.   The banner must meet the definition in §
154.004 of this chapter.



         (b)   Banner display information.



            1.   A banner may describe an event, sale or
promotion taking place.



            2.   A banner is not intended to replace permanent
building signage.



            3.   Three banner permits will be allowed per year.



            4.   Each banner will be allowed for no more than
15 days.



            5.   Banners must be removed when the 15-day
permit is expired.



            6.   Banners are not allowed in public
right-of-way or off-premise from primary business.



            7.   Single-day event banner signs for non-profit
organizations are exempt from the banner sign ordinance.



         (c)   Obtaining banner sign permit applications.



            1.   Permits may be obtained from the Planning and
Zoning Department at the city.



            2.   The form must be completed and signed by the
business owner.



            3.   The application must be approved and signed
by the Planning Department before the banner may be displayed.



            4.   The banner sign ordinance will take effect on
4-19-2011. All banners must comply with the regulations at that time. No
“grandfathering” is permitted.



         (d)   Specifications of the banner sign. One or more
banners not exceeding two square feet per front linear foot building are
allowed on the primary side of the building.



      (12)   Appeals. Upon notice of any application being rejected
by the city staff, the applicant shall have access to appeal to the Downtown
Design Review Committee, and if rejected by the Downtown Design Review
Committee the applicant shall have the appeal procedure pursuant to this
chapter.



   (F)   Downtown design review. A sign requires review by the Downtown
Design Review Committee if the sign does not specifically meet any of the
requirements of divisions (E)(3), (E)(5) or (E)(10) above.



(2004 Code, § 154.137)  (Ord. 01-296, passed 8-14-2001; Ord. 03-334, passed
4-8-2003; Ord. 03-338, passed 4-8-2003; Ord. 06-0433, passed 7-11-2006; Ord.
11-0666, passed 4-26-2011)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.143  PROHIBITED SIGNS.



   The following described signs are hereby declared a nuisance and shall
be prohibited in all districts of the city:



   (A)   Revolving and flashing signs. Signs which revolve or flash or
consist of lights which revolve or flash allowed only if they conform to §
154.141(O) of this chapter;



   (B)   Signs imitating official signs. Signs which imitate an
official traffic sign or signal or which contain the words “stop”, “go
slow”, “caution”, “danger”, “warning” or similar words;



   (C)   Confusing signs. Signs which are of a size, location,
movement, content, coloring or manner of illumination which may be confused
with or construed as a traffic-control device; or which hide from view any
traffic or street sign or signal; or which obstruct the view in any direction
at a street or road intersection;



   (D)   Signs advertising terminated businesses. Business signs which
advertise an activity, business or service no longer produced or conducted on
the premises upon which the sign is located. Where the owner or lessor of the
premises is seeking a new tenant, these signs may remain in place for not
more than 60 days from the date of vacancy;



   (E)   Right-of-way. Business or advertising signs which are placed
on a municipal, county or state right-of-way;



   (F)   Other temporary signs. Signs which are pasted or attached to
utility poles, trees, fences or other signs.



(2004 Code, § 154.138)  (Ord. 01-296, passed 8-14-2001; Ord. 03-338, passed
4-8-2003; Ord. 10-0661, passed 10-12-2010)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.144  AMORTIZATION OF NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.



   (A)   Certain signs existing at the time of the enactment of this
subchapter and not conforming to its provisions, but which did conform to
previous laws, shall be regarded as non-conforming signs. Non-conforming
signs which are structurally altered, relocated or replaced shall comply
immediately with all provisions of this subchapter.



   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the City Council from
granting temporary permits for lights, banners, signs or decorations relating
to civic or community celebrations, subject to conditions as the City Council
may see fit to impose.



(2004 Code, § 154.139)  (Ord. 01-296, passed 8-14-2001)




NON-CONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES




§ 154.155  INTENT.



   (A)   (1)   Within the districts established by this chapter or
amendments that may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures and uses
of land and structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or
amended, but which would be prohibited under the terms of this chapter or
future amendment.



      (2)   It is the intent of this chapter to phase out these
non-conforming uses within a reasonable time period while retaining full
economic value. These uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the intent of
this chapter that non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses
prohibited elsewhere in the same district.



   (B)   However, in the case that the structure itself is now
non-conforming as to the special setback requirements, but was built in
accordance with the 1962 City Zoning Ordinance, that structure might be
granted a conditional use permit to expand, providing that expansion would
not be violating the provisions of the 1962 ordinance and when it appears
that the issuance of a conditional use permit is in the best interest of the
city and the public.



   (C)   A non-conforming use of a structure, a non-conforming use of
land or a non-conforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or
enlarged after passage of this chapter by attachment of additional signs to a
building, or the placement of additional signs to a building, or the
placement of additional signs or display devices on the land outside the
building, or by the addition of other uses, if the additions are of a nature
which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.



   (D)   (1)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction or designated
use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun and upon
which actual building construction has been diligently carried on.



      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



         ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION. Includes the placing of construction
materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner, and
demolition, elimination and removal of an existing structure in connection
with that construction; provided that, ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION work shall be
diligently carried on until the completion of the building involved.



(2004 Code, § 154.150)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.156  NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.



   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet the
requirements for area, width or depth that are generally applicable in the
zoning district; provided that, other requirements not involving lot
dimensions or area of lot shall conform to the regulations for the district
in which the lot is located. Variance of yard dimensions and other
requirements shall be obtained only through action of the city’s Planning
Commission. Existing platted lots and lot splits prior to 1-1-1992 do not
need a variance for compliance with dimensional tabulations.



(2004 Code, § 154.151)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.157  NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.



   (A)   Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, lawful use of land exists that is no longer permissible under the
terms of this chapter as enacted or amended, that use may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful.



   (B)   The continued use is subject to the following provisions.



      (1)   No non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased,
nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.



      (2)   No non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part
to any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by that use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.



      (3)   If any non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason
for a period of more than one year, any subsequent use of that land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in
which the land is located.



(2004 Code, § 154.152)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.158  NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.



   (A)   If a lawful use of a structure, or of a structure and premises
in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful.



   (B)   The continued use is subject to the following provisions.



      (1)   No structure thus described may be enlarged, extended,
converted, reconstructed or structurally altered unless the use of the
structure is changed to one permitted within the district in which the
building is located. The non-conforming use shall not thereafter be resumed.



      (2)   Should the structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than 50% of its assessed market value at time of destruction,
it may be reconstructed if a building permit is applied for within 180 days
from the date of destruction and the non-conformity is not increased. In this
case, the city may impose reasonable conditions upon a building permit in
order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property.



      (3)   Should the structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.



      (4)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or a structure
and premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than one
year, the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not
thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.



      (5)   When a non-conforming use status applies to a structure
and premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the non-conforming status of the land.



      (6)   If any non-conforming structure in the floodway or flood
fringe district is destroyed by any means, including floods, to an extent of
50% or more of its market value at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
However, the city may issue a conditional use permit for reconstruction if
the use is located outside the floodway and, upon reconstruction, is
adequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected in conformity with
§§ 154.085 through 154.098 of this chapter, to the extent necessary to
maintain eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program and not increase
flood damage potential or increase the degree of obstruction to flood flows
in the floodway.



      (7)   An alteration or addition to any non-conforming
structure located only in the flood plain which would result in substantially
increasing its damage potential shall be protected in accordance with §§
154.085 through 154.098 of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.153)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 07-0468, passed
9-11-2007)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.159  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.



   (A)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any
non-conforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided
that, the cubic space content of the building as it existed at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.



   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part
thereof declared to be unsafe by any city official charged with protecting
the public safety, upon order of that official, or the reconditioning
required by updated building codes, fire codes or energy codes.



(2004 Code, § 154.154)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)




ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT




§ 154.170  CITY COUNCIL POWERS.



   The City Council may, on its own motion, on request of the Planning
Commission or on petition of the affected property owners:



   (A)   Change the zoning of a parcel of land from one classification
to another;



   (B)   Change any of the regulations of this code as to the use of
land in any district or as to the restrictions upon buildings or structures
therein, by amendment to this chapter;



   (C)   Review and approve conditional use permits;



   (D)   Review site plans for multiple-family buildings (three or more
units), commercial development or industrial development and mandate the
inclusion or alteration of elements of the plans to protect adjacent
properties. When a variance, conditional use or rezoning is requested, the
site plan must be reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council;



   (E)   Hear and decide requests for variances from the literal
provisions of this code; and



   (F)   Hear and decide appeals by any person affected by any alleged
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by any
administrative officer in the enforcement of this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 154.165)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.171  ENFORCEMENT; ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.



   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may institute, in the name of the
city, any appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator as provided
by law.



   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall be the Planning Director,
unless the City Council specifically appoints someone else. The duties of the
Zoning Administrator shall be as follows:



      (1)   Examine all applications pertaining to the use of land,
buildings or structures, and grant approval of and issue permits or take
other appropriate action on these applications when in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter;



      (2)   Periodically inspect buildings, structures and uses of
land to determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;



      (3)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating
a provision of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it;



      (4)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings
or structures; order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions or
alterations; order discontinuance of illegal work being done; or take any
other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violation of its provisions;



      (5)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter,
including maps, amendments, conditional uses and variances;



      (6)   Maintain a current file of all permits, zoning
certificates, certificates of occupancy and notices of violation,
discontinuance or removal for enough time as necessary to insure continuous
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and, on request, provide
information to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in any
specific property;



      (7)   Maintain a record of the elevation of the first floor
(including basement) of all new structures or additions to existing
structures in the flood plain districts; and also maintain a record of the
elevations to which structures or additions to structures are floodproofed;
and



      (8)   Notify the County Recorder of all variances and
conditional use permits granted.



(2004 Code, § 154.166)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.172  VARIANCES.



   (A)   Authority and conditions.



      (1)   (a)   The Planning Commission, acting as the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, is authorized to hear requests for variances from
the literal provisions of this chapter in instances where their strict
enforcement would cause practical difficulties because of circumstances
unique to the individual property under consideration, and to grant such
variances only when it is demonstrated that such actions will be in keeping
with the spirit and intent of the ordinance and when the variances are
consistent with the comprehensive plan. Variances may be granted when the
applicant for the variance establishes that there are practical difficulties
in complying with the official control.



         (b)   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES, as used in connection with
the granting of a variance, means that the property owner proposes to use the
property in a reasonable manner not permitted by an official control; the
plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not
created by the landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the
essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone do not
constitute PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES also include, but
are not limited to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy
systems.



         (c)   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered
construction as defined in M.S. § 216C.06, Subd. 14, as it may be amended
from time to time, when in harmony with this chapter. The Planning Commission
may not permit as a variance any use that is not permitted under the
ordinance for property in the zone where the affected person’s land is
located. The Planning Commission may permit as a variance the temporary use
of a one-family dwelling as a two-family dwelling. The Planning Commission
may impose conditions in the granting of variances. A condition must be
directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to the impact
created by the variance.



      (2)   The conditions cited as reason for granting a variance
must be due to physical conditions unique to the land or building involved
and must not be applicable to other sites in the same zoning district.
Economic considerations may be taken into account, but shall not by
themselves be the reason for which a variance is granted.



      (3)   Specific conditions and safeguards may be imposed upon
the premises benefitted by a variance as considered necessary to prevent
injurious effects upon property in the neighborhood or upon public facilities
and services. Violation of those conditions and safeguards shall be a
violation of this chapter.



      (4)   Within the floodway or flood fringe districts, no
variance may permit a lower degree of encroachment than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for that particular area.



   (B)   Procedures.



      (1)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator. A non-refundable application fee, established from time
to time by the City Council to cover administrative costs and costs of the
hearing, shall accompany each application. The application shall contain the
following information, as well as additional information as may be required
by the Zoning Administrator:



         (a)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the property
dimensions, existing and proposed buildings and other structures, existing
and proposed grading, landscaping, easements and location of utilities, as
applicable. The Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to obtain a
certified survey at the time of application;



         (b)   The particular requirements of this chapter which
prevent the proposed use or construction;



         (c)   The characteristics of the subject property which
prevent compliance with the requirements of this chapter;



         (d)   The minimum reduction of the requirements of this
chapter which would be necessary to permit the proposed use or construction;



         (e)   The particular hardship which would result if the
particular requirements of this chapter were applied to the subject property;
and



         (f)   If the variance is part of an application for
commercial, industrial or multiple-family residential site plan approval, all
of the submittal requirements for a site plan in § 154.174(B)(1) of this
chapter shall also apply.



      (2)   (a)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and
conducted by the city’s Planning Commission in accordance with § 154.176
of this chapter.



         (b)   For a variance in the floodway or flood fringe
district, the Zoning Administrator shall submit to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed variances located in
the floodway or flood fringe district sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten-days’ notice of the hearing.



      (3)   Within 30 days following the close of the public
hearing, the city’s Planning Commission shall render its decision
recommending granting or denying the variance. The decision shall be
accompanied by findings of fact and shall refer to any exhibits containing
plans and specifications for the proposed variance. The plans and
specifications shall remain a part of the permanent records of the city’s
Planning Commission. The findings of fact shall specify the reason or reasons
for granting or denying the variance. The terms of relief granted shall be
specifically set forth in a conclusion or statement separate from the
findings of fact.



         (a)   Any aggrieved person may appeal a decision of the
Planning Commission to the City Council.



         (b)   Motions on variances require a simple majority of
the Planning Commission or City Council for passage.



      (4)   A copy of all decisions granting a variance in a
Floodway or Flood Fringe District shall be forwarded to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources within ten days of the action.



(2004 Code, § 154.167)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 11-0672, passed
7-12-2011)



§ 154.173  ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS; LAND REZONINGS.



   (A)   Authority. This chapter and the official zoning map may be
amended from time to time by ordinance duly enacted by the City Council;
provided, however, that, no amendment shall be enacted, except in accordance
with the procedures of § 154.171 of this chapter, regarding public hearings.



   (B)   Initiation. Proposed amendments or rezonings may be initiated
by the City Council, by the Planning Commission, by any one or more owners of
real estate in the area to be affected by the amendment or rezoning or by the
owner of an enforceable option to purchase property in the area affected by
the amendment or rezoning.



   (C)   Procedure.



      (1)   When any proposed amendment or rezoning is initiated by
the City Council, the Council shall transmit its proposal to the Planning
Commission for a public hearing and report thereon.



      (2)   When any proposed amendment or rezoning is initiated by
an owner or owners of real estate in the city, an application for that
amendment or rezoning, addressed to the City Council, shall be filed with the
City Administrator. A non-refundable application fee, established from time
to time by the City Council to cover administrative costs, shall accompany
the application. The application shall be in the form and contain that
information as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Planning
Commission, but shall in all instances contain the following information:



         (a)   The applicant’s name and address;



         (b)   The precise wording of any proposed amendment to
the text of this chapter; and



         (c)   In the case of a rezoning:



            1.   A legal description and street address of the
property proposed to be reclassified;



            2.   The name and address of the property owner or
owners of the property;



            3.   The present zoning classification and the
existing uses of the property to be reclassified;



            4.   The area of the property proposed to be
reclassified, stated in square feet or acres, or fraction thereof; and



            5.   A map, drawn to scale, clearly showing the
property proposed to be rezoned, its present zoning classification and
existing uses and its initial use under the proposed zoning; and, if deemed
necessary by the Zoning Administrator, a land survey will be required.



      (3)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted
by the Planning Commission in accordance with § 154.171 of this chapter.



      (4)   Within 30 days following the conclusion of the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall transmit to the City Council its
recommendation in the form of a written report. The report shall be
accompanied by the findings of fact specifying the reasons for the
recommendation.



      (5)   The City Council may apply a condition to a rezoning
that would revert the site to the previous zoning classification if
substantial development activity has not commenced on the site within two
years of the date of rezoning approval.



      (6)   The flood plain designation on zoning maps shall not be
removed from the flood plain areas unless it can be shown that the
designation is in error or that the areas are filled to an elevation at or
above the flood protection elevation and are contiguous to other lands lying
outside the flood plain district. Special exceptions to this rule may be
permitted by the Commissioner of Natural Resources if he or she determines
that, through other measures, lands are protected adequately for the intended
uses.



      (7)   All amendments to either the flood plain designation on
the official zoning map or flood plain provisions of this chapter must be
submitted to and approved by the Commission of Natural Resources prior to
adoption.



(2004 Code, § 154.168)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.174  SITE PLAN REVIEW.



   (A)   The City Council declares it necessary and appropriate to
require site plan approval of development in certain zoning districts to
preserve and promote attractive, well-planned, stable urban conditions. This
includes all proposed multiple-family buildings (three or more units),
commercial developments, industrial developments and all proposed
developments in the flood plain district. Site plan approval by the Zoning
Administrator and Director of Engineering must be obtained before a building
permit is issued.



   (B)   True and accurate representation of the following requirements
are the responsibility of the applicant.



      (1)   Application for site plan approval. Applications for
site plan approval shall be on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator
and shall include the established processing fee. The application and copies
of the site plan shall be submitted by the last working day of the month for
the next month’s agenda of the city’s Planning Commission.



         (a)   In all cases, the site plan shall contain:



            1.   Name of the project;



            2.   Location of the project, including a vicinity
map;



            3.   Name and mailing address of the developer
and/or owner;



            4.   Name, telephone number and mailing address of
the project engineer and/or architect;



            5.   Date of plan preparation;



            6.   North point and graphic scale;



            7.   Boundary line of the project site with
dimensions. All site plans shall be drawn at an engineering scale (e.g., one
inch equals 40 feet); and



            8.   A registered land survey if deemed necessary
by the Zoning Administrator.



         (b)   The site plan shall also contain the following
features, both existing and proposed, drawn by a registered engineer,
architect, landscape architect or land surveyor:



            1.   Topographic contours at a minimum interval of
two feet;



            2.   Adjacent and on-site streets and street
rights-of-way;



            3.   Utilities and utility right-of-way easements,
manhole rim elevations and pipe elevations and sizes;



            4.   Buildings, signs and light poles;



            5.   Parking and loading facilities;



            6.   Surface water collection and conveyance
features, including arrows indicating the direction of surface water flow
over the map of proposed contours;



            7.   Surface water ponds, ditches and wetlands;



            8.   Sidewalks and bicycle paths;



            9.   Location of tree cover, including the
designation of trees of 15 inches in diameter or more;



            10.   Fences and retaining walls;



            11.   Shielded exterior refuse collection areas;



            12.   Landscaping, including species and minimum
size. Regulations on landscaping are set forth in § 154.115 of this chapter;



            13.   Traffic flow on- and off-site;



            14.   Height above mean sea level of buildings;



            15.   Project data including square footage of
buildings and number of parking spaces;



            16.   A description of proposed exterior finish
materials; and



            17.   The current zoning of the property and a
listing of all required federal, state and city permits and the status of
those applications.



         (c)   The Zoning Administrator may require the developer
to submit the following items if he or she feels that they are important for
adequate understanding of the project by the Planning Commission, City
Council or public:



            1.   Aerial photograph(s) of the site;



            2.   Cross-section drawings;



            3.   Perspective sketch(es); and



            4.   A professional analysis of traffic impact or
other infrastructure impact (e.g., storm sewer, water or sanitary sewer).



      (2)   Review and recommendation by the Planning Commission. In
considering applications for site plan approval under this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall consider the following: how the site plan relates
to conditions both on and off the site, conformance with the Comprehensive
Plan, the impact of the site plan on the existing and anticipated traffic and
parking conditions, building location and height, sanitary sewer, water and
drainage conditions, landscaping, lighting, open space, signage, setbacks and
related matters.



      (3)   Developer’s or builder’s agreement. Prior to issuing
a building permit, the Zoning Administrator may require the developer or
builder to sign an agreement with the city which assures that particular
elements of the site plan approval application, either proposed by the
applicant or imposed by the Zoning Administrator, City Engineer or Planning
Commission, shall be carried out. The Planning Commission may require the
applicant to post a performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit to
ensure that certain improvements are implemented.



(2004 Code, § 154.169)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.175  CONDITIONAL USES.



   (A)   Purpose and authority.



      (1)   The purpose of a conditional use permit is to authorize
and regulate uses which may be beneficial in a specific instance to the
general welfare of the community, yet ensure that such uses are not
detrimental to surrounding property, and are consistent with the stated
purpose of the zoning district and goals of the Comprehensive Plan. Because
of their unusual characteristics, conditional uses require special
consideration so they may be located properly with respect to the property
location, surrounding area, and arrangement of the property. In order to
achieve these goals, the city may approve or deny applications and impose
reasonable conditions upon granting the permit.



      (2)   Within all special flood hazard areas (zones A) all
proposed construction or development, including placement of prefabricated
buildings and manufactured homes, shall require permits pursuant to §§
154.015 and 154.085 through 154.098 of this chapter. In addition, the
proposed site shall be reasonably free from flooding and in accordance with
§ 154.015 of this chapter.



   (B)   Standards and conditions for conditional uses.



      (1)   A conditional use permit may be granted for the
following uses only:



         (a)   Any use specifically listed as a conditional use
in the regulations applicable to the district in which it is specifically
located;



         (b)   Planned development in accordance with the
provisions of § 154.070 of this chapter in any district;



         (c)   Any of the following uses in any residential or
commercial district:



            1.   Schools;



            2.   Community recreation buildings and fields;



            3.   Elderly high rise; or



            4.   Relocation of any structure larger than ten
feet by 12 feet.



         (d)   Any of the following uses in any district:
buildings, facilities or premises of public service corporations to be used
for public utility purposes reasonably necessary to the public convenience or
welfare.



      (2)   A conditional use permit must meet the following
conditions for approval:



         (a)   The proposed building or use at the particular
location requested is necessary or desirable to provide a service or a
facility which is in the interest of the public convenience and will
contribute to the general welfare of the neighborhood or community;



         (b)   The proposed building or use will not have a
substantial or undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of
the neighborhood, traffic conditions, utility facilities and other matters
affecting the public health, safety and general welfare; and



         (c)   The proposed building or use will be designed,
arranged and operated so as to permit the development and use of neighboring
property in accordance with the applicable district regulations.



   (C)   Procedure.



      (1)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator with the following required information:



         (a)   Legal description of the tract of land;



         (b)   Evidence of ownership;



         (c)   A non-refundable application fee, as set by the
City Council in the city’s fee schedule, as it may be amended by City
Council from time to time;



         (d)   Plans drawn to convenient scale, showing the
current zoning classification and existing land use of the tract and those
tracts directly adjacent to it, and any significant topographical or physical
features and all easements of the tract and adjacent tracts. The Zoning
Administrator may require a certified survey at his or her discretion at the
time of application;



         (e)   Three copies of preliminary plans, drawn to a
convenient scale, showing the same information as is required for site plan
approval;



         (f)   Applications for a conditional use permit for a
planned development district shall meet the requirements and follow the
application procedures of § 154.070, PD, Planned Development District;



         (g)   When it deems it to be necessary, the Planning
Commission may require a traffic survey, conducted at the expense of the
applicant, setting out and analyzing the effect that the development will
have upon traffic in the streets and thoroughfares adjacent to and in the
proposed development;



         (h)   A statement showing the relationship of the
proposed development to the Comprehensive Plan and future land use plan of
the city; and



         (i)   A statement as to how the proposed development is
to be designed, arranged and operated in order to permit the development and
use of neighboring property in accordance with the applicable district
regulations.



      (2)   (a)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and
conducted by the Planning Commission in accordance with § 154.171 of this
chapter.



         (b)   When a floodway or flood fringe district is
involved, the Planning Commission shall submit to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources a copy of the application for a proposed conditional use permit
sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at least
ten-days’ notice of the hearing.



      (3)   The Planning Commission shall transmit to the City
Council a written report containing its recommendations concerning the
proposed conditional use. The report shall be accompanied by findings of fact
specifying the reasons for the recommendation.



      (4)   The City Council shall not grant a conditional use
unless it finds that the standards of § 154.071 of this chapter have been
satisfied. The City Council may, after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, grant a conditional use permit or overturn the vote of
the Planning Commission with a three-quarters vote. The City Council shall
approve or deny the request within the time allowed by state statute, unless
extended pursuant to state statutes or a time waiver is granted by the
applicant.



      (5)   A copy of all decisions granting a conditional use
permit in the floodway or flood fringe districts shall be forwarded to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten working days of the action.



      (6)   A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as long
as the conditions required by the permit are observed. Any expansion or
intensification of a conditional use or change to another conditional use
requires approval of a new conditional use permit.



      (7)   A conditional use permit shall run with the land and may
be transferred to subsequent property owners.



      (8)   A certified copy of the conditional use permit shall be
recorded with the County Recorder and shall include the legal description of
the property.



(2004 Code, § 154.170)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 07-0485, passed
12-11-2007)  Penalty, see § 154.999



§ 154.176  PUBLIC HEARINGS.



   (A)   Setting of hearings. For all requests brought before the City
Council or the Planning Commission for which a public hearing is required by
this chapter, the body in charge of conducting the hearing shall select a
reasonable time and place for the public hearing on the request, or delegate
this authority to the City Administrator.



   (B)   Notice of hearings.



      (1)   Notice of public hearings shall be given not more than
30 days and not less than ten days before the hearing by publication at least
once in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the city. The notice
shall include the time and place of the hearing, a description of the
contents of the request to be heard and the address or location of the
property to which the request applies.



      (2)   In addition to the general notice to the public,
separate notice by letter shall be required for all property owners residing
within the area, and for a distance of 350 feet from the boundaries of the
area, where a request concerning property will be the subject of the hearing.
These notices shall be sent by the City Council, and addresses taken from
current city records shall be deemed sufficient for this notification.



   (C)   Conduct of hearing. Any person may appear and testify at a
public hearing, either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney,
or by written, signed letter.



(2004 Code, § 154.171)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.177  FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.



   (A)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, certificates of
occupancy, conditional use permits, appeal application and other matters
pertaining to this chapter. This schedule of fees shall be available in the
office of the Zoning Enforcement Officer and may be altered by ordinance of
the City Council.



   (B)   No application, permit, certificate or variance shall be
issued unless or until the costs, charges, fees or expenses have been paid in
full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Planning
Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals unless or until preliminary charges and
fees have been paid in full.



   (C)   If a dispute arises over a specific fee imposed by the city,
the amount of the fee must be deposited and held in escrow, and the person
aggrieved by the fee may appeal to district court, as provided by M.S. §
462.361, as it may be amended from time to time. The application shall
proceed as if the fee had been paid, pending a decision of the court.



(2004 Code, § 154.172)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996)



§ 154.178  CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW.



   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the
provisions of M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
following sections shall govern the process for making decisions under this
chapter. To the extent to which these sections conflict with the provisions
of M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, the provisions of
that statute shall apply.



(2004 Code, § 154.173)



§ 154.179  APPLICATIONS.



   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, all
applications for any site plan, conditional use permit, land use permit,
variance or for any other city approval required by this chapter, or to amend
this chapter, shall be made in writing on a form provided by the city, if the
city has a form, to the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator is
authorized to reject in writing any incomplete application within 15 business
days of receipt if the application is incomplete, stating the reasons for its
rejection, including what information is missing. This rejection shall be
sent by first-class mail to the applicant. Every application shall contain
the legal description of the property and a statement of the specific permit
or action being sought. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent
the city from requesting additional information from the applicant upon which
to base a decision.



(2004 Code, § 154.174)



§ 154.180  FINAL ACTIONS.



   (A)   As required by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time
to time, the following provisions apply to the process for approving or
denying applications for a zoning amendment, site plan, conditional use
permit, land use permit, variance or any other application which requires a
city approval under this chapter.



   (B)   The city shall take final action to approve or deny an
application described above within 60 days of receiving an application,
unless the application is not accepted under § 154.174 of this chapter. If
the city cannot take action to approve or deny the application within 60 days
of receiving the application, the Zoning Administrator is authorized before
the end of the initial 60-day period, to make a one-time extension of the
time for taking action by providing written notice by first class mail to the
applicant of the extension, the reasons for the extension and its anticipated
length, which may not exceed an additional 60 days unless approved by the
applicant in writing.



   (C)   When the final action to approve or disapprove an application
is to be taken by the City Council, the Planning Commission or the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments, if a vote on a resolution or properly made motion to
approve the application fails for any reason, the failure shall constitute a
denial of the application; provided that, those voting against the motion
state on the record the reasons why they oppose the application. A denial of
an application because of a failure to approve a resolution or motion does
not preclude an immediate submission of a same or similar application.



   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) above, if the
application is denied by the City Council, Planning Commission or Board of
Appeals and Adjustments, whichever body has the authority to make the final
decision to approve or deny an application, it must state the reasons for
denial on the record and provide the applicant in writing a statement of the
reasons for the denial.



      (2)   If this written statement is not adopted at the same
time as the denial, it must be adopted at the next meeting following the
denial of the application, but before the expiration of the time allowed for
making a decision under this section. The written statement must be
consistent with the reasons stated in the record at the time of the denial.
The written statement must be provided to the applicant upon adoption.



   (E)   If the decision to deny the request is made by the Zoning
Administrator or other city official, the official must state in writing the
reasons for the denial at the time the official denies the request.



(2004 Code, § 154.175)



§ 154.181  ADDITIONAL EXTENSIONS OF TIME.



   (A)   M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, 
provides for certain exceptions to the time limits established in § 154.175
of this chapter.



   (B)   These exceptions are as follows. If the provisions of M.S. §
15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, are inconsistent with this
section, then the provisions of that statute shall apply.



      (1)   The time limit in § 154.175 of this chapter is extended
if a state statute, federal law or court order requires a process to occur
before the city acts on the application, and the time periods prescribed in
the state statute, federal law or court order  make it impossible to act on
the application within 60 days. In cases described in this division (B), the
deadline is extended to 60 days after completion of the last process required
in the applicable statute, law or order. Final approval of the city receiving
an application is not considered a process for purposes of this division (B).



      (2)   (a)   The time limit in § 154.175 of this chapter is
also extended if:



            1.   An application submitted to a state agency
requires prior approval of a federal agency; or



            2.   An application submitted to the city,
requires prior approval of a state or federal agency.



         (b)   In cases described in this division (B), the
deadline for action is extended to 60 days after the required prior approval
is granted.



(2004 Code, § 154.176)



§ 154.182  APPLICATIONS FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL AND BUILDING PERMITS.



   Sections 154.173 through 154.176 of this chapter shall not apply to any
request for action under the city’s subdivision regulations or under M.S.
§ 462.358 or Ch. 505, as they may be amended from time to time. Neither
shall they apply to a request for a building permit.



(2004 Code, § 154.177)



§ 154.999  PENALTY.



   (A)   Generally. A violation of this chapter for which no penalty is
set forth, shall be subject to § 10.99.



   (B)   Sections 154.085 through 154.098.



      (1)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of §§
154.085 through 154.098 or failure to comply with any of its requirements
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection
with grants of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and
will be punishable as defined by law.



      (2)   Other lawful action.  Nothing in this subchapter
restricts the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. If the responsible party does not
appropriately respond to the Zoning Administrator within the specified period
of time, each additional day that lapses will constitute an additional
violation of this ordinance and will be prosecuted accordingly.



      (3)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this
subchapter will be investigated and resolved in accordance with the
provisions of § 154.098 of the zoning ordinance. In responding to a
suspected Ordinance violation, the Zoning Administrator and City Council may
utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it including but
not limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact permits,
orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood Insurance
Program for denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty party. The
City must act in good faith to enforce these official controls and to correct
ordinance violations to the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.



(Ord. 14-0729, passed 6-10-2014)



APPENDIX A: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT



   (A)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit.



 

Type of Use
 

Unit Details

 

Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit, in Square Feet, by Zoning District




R-1

 

R-2

 

R-3

 

R-4

 

R-5





Apartment building
 

0 BR/efficiency

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

2,500*

 

-




1 BR per DU

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

3,000*

 

-




2 BR per DU

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

3,000*

 

-




3 BR per DU

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

3,500*

 

-



Elderly apartments
 

0 BR/efficiency

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

1,000

 

-




1 BR per DU

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

1,500

 

-




2 BR per DU

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

2,000

 

-



Manufactured homes
 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-

 



 

Determined by setbacks



Single-family
 

-

 

10,400

 

8,400

 

7,200

 

-

 

-



Two-family; maximum ground coverage 35%
 

-

 

-

 

5,000

 

5,000

 

-

 

-



Three- to eight-family
 

-

 

-

 

-

 

4,200*

 

4,000*

 

-



NOTES TO TABLE:

* These minimum lot areas may be adjusted as follows:

(1) For each parking space within or under an apartment building, subtract
400 square feet from the total minimum lot area; and

(2) For each private dwelling unit entrance, subtract 400 square feet from
the total minimum lot area.




 



   (B)   Minimum lot widths and depths in residential districts.



 

Dimension
 

Type of Use

 

Minimum Lot Dimensions, in Feet, by Zoning District




R-1

 

R-2

 

R-3

 

R-4

 

R-5





Lot width
 

Apartment

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-




Single-family

 

80

 

70

 

60

 

None

 

100




Single-family, corner lot

 

110

 

90

 

80

 

None

 

100




Two-family (double)

 

-

 

80

 

80

 

-

 

115




Three- to eight-family

 

-

 

-

 

None

 

-

 

-



Lot depth
 

Apartment

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-




Single-family

 

130

 

120

 

120

 

None

 

50




Two-family (double)

 

-

 

120

 

120

 

-

 

65




Three- to eight-family

 

-

 

-

 

None

 

-

 

-





 



   (C)   Building setbacks in residential districts.



 

Type of Building
 

Setback Type

 
Building Details
 

Setback, in Feet, by Zoning District




R-1

 

R-2

 

R-3

 

R-4

 

R-5





Accessory structure
 

Front

 
-
 

30

 

25

 

25

 

30

 

50




Interior side

 
-
 

6

 

6

 

6

 

6

 

-




Corner side

 
-
 

30

 

25

 

25

 

25

 

-




Rear

 
-
 

6

 

6

 

6

 

6

 

0



Principal structure
 

Front

 
Single- or two-family
 

30

 

25

 

25

 

30

 

25



Other
 

30

 

25

 

30

 

30

 

25




Interior side

 
Single-family
 

8

 

8*

 

8

 

20

 

-



Two-family
 

8

 

8*

 

10

 

20

 

-



Other
 

8

 

8*

 

20**

 

20**

 

-




Corner side

 
-
 

30

 

25

 

25

 

25

 

-




Rear

 
Single- or two-family
 

30

 

25

 

25

 

40

 

10



Other
 

30

 

25

 

40

 

40

 

10




Main entry side

 
-
 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

25




Secondary entry side

 
-
 

-

 

-

 

-

 

-

 

10



NOTES TO TABLE:

* Six feet prior to 1988.

** Four or more unit buildings or townhouses: Add six inches for each foot
the average height of the building exceeds 20 feet. Front, side and rear
setback of an apartment building shall be no less than 35 feet or the average
height of the building, whichever is greater.




 



   (D)   Maximum building heights in residential districts.



 

Type of Building
 
Building Details
 

Maximum Height, in Feet, by Zoning District




R-1

 

R-2

 

R-3

 

R-4

 

R-5





Accessory structure
 
-
 

16

 

16

 

16

 

16

 

None



Principal structure
 
Single-family
 

35

 

35

 

35

 

-

 

None



Two-family
 

-

 

35

 

35

 

-

 

None



Three- to eight-family
 

-

 

-

 

35

 

35

 

None



Townhouses
 

-

 

-

 

35

 

35

 

None



Apartments
 

-

 

-

 

-

 

35

 

None





 



   (E)   Dimensional regulations for commercial zoning districts.



 

Requirement
 
Structure Type
 

Dimensions, in Feet, by Zoning District




C-1

 

C-2

 

C-3

 

C-4





Maximum building height
 
Principal structure
 

18

 

40

 

-

 

40



Accessory structure
 

15

 

15

 

20

 

25



Minimum lot area
 
 
 

-

 

15,000 square feet

 

-

 

43,560 square feet



Minimum lot depth
 
 
 

-

 

150

 

-

 

180



Minimum lot width
 
 
 

-

 

100

 

-

 

200



Setback from interior lot line
 
Principal building
 

15

 

20

 

0

 

20



Accessory building
 

6

 

6

 

0

 

6



Driveway or parking area
 

6

 

6

 

0

 

6



Setback from residential zoning boundary
 
Principal building
 

25

 

50

 

10

 

50



Accessory building
 

10

 

10

 

10

 

50



Driveway or parking area
 

10

 

10

 

10

 

10



Setback from street right-of-way
 
Principal building
 

30

 

30

 

0

 

25



Accessory building
 

30

 

30

 

20

 

20



Driveway or parking area
 

10

 

10

 

5

 

10



NOTES TO TABLE:

Height limitation for the airport clear zones shall be maintained in all
districts.




 



   (F)   Dimensional regulations for industrial and business districts.



 



APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS



 

Land Use
 
Number of Spaces per Unit




Apartment building
 
1.0 per bedroom, plus 0.5 per bedroom in common for visitors


Apartment building for the elderly
 
0.5 per dwelling unit


Auto body shop
 
4.0 per service stall


Automobile service station
 
4.0 per service stall


Bed and breakfast inn
 
1.0 per sleeping unit, plus 1.0 for the owner


Bowling alley
 
5.0 per alley


Churches, auditoriums and other places of assembly
 
1.0 per 4 seats


Convalescence or nursing homes
 
0.35 per bed


Convenience food store
 
1.0 per 1,000 sq. ft., plus parking at pumps


Drive-through service
 
Provide 80 feet for vehicle stacking


Funeral home
 
1.0 per 5 seats


Furniture and warehouse stores2
 
1.0 per employee warehouse area, plus 1.0 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross sales area


Grocery store1
 
7.0 per 1,000 sq. ft.


Hospitals
 
1.0 per bed, plus 1.0 per employee or volunteer on a major shift


Manufactured home
 
2.0 per lot


Manufacturing1
 
1.0 per employee on principal shift, or 2.0 per 1,000 sq. ft.


Medical and dental clinics
 
1.0 per 200 sq. ft. gross floor area, plus 1.0 per primary medical service
provider


Motels, hotels
 
1.0 per sleeping unit


Museums and libraries
 
3.0 per 1,000 sq. ft.


Office building, less than 20,000 sq. ft.
 
5.0 per 1,000 sq. ft.


Office building, more than 20,000 sq. ft.
 
4.0 per 1,000 sq. ft.


Recreation center
 
1.0 per 4 seats, or 5.5 per 1,000 sq. ft.


Restaurants and taverns (see drive-through service)
 
1.0 per table, or 1.0 per 2 stools


Retail business2
 
5.5 per 1,000 sq. ft.


Schools, elementary and nursery
 
1.6  per classroom


Schools, junior high
 
1.6 per classroom


Schools, senior high
 
4.5 per classroom


Schools, technical and colleges
 
1.0 per 2 students3, and 1.0 per employee, plus 1.0 per 2 auditorium seats


Self service car washes
 
4.0 per lane (3 on entrance side, 1 on exit side)


Single- and two-family houses with minimum 400 sq. ft. attached or detached
garage
 
2.0 per dwelling unit


Single- and two-family rental dwelling with minimum 400 sq. ft. attached or
detached garage
 
1.0 per adult tenant per dwelling unit; minimum 2.0 spaces per unit


Townhouses, three- to eight-family buildings with minimum 400 sq. ft.
attached or detached garage
 
2.04 per dwelling unit, plus 0.5  per dwelling unit in common for visitors


Warehouse1
 
1.0 per employee on principal shift, or 1.0 per 2,000 sq. ft.


All other commercial uses
 
5.5 per 1,000 sq. ft.


NOTES TO TABLE:

1 Requires loading berth.

2 May require loading berth.

3 Total students at potential peak periods.

4 Does not include the driveway in front of the garage door.

- Parking in the Main Street area, which is defined as the area located
between the east side of Franklin Avenue from the Crow River to Fourth Avenue
SW and the west side of Hassan Street from the Crow River to Fourth Avenue
SE. This district has been assessed and is exempt.




 



(2004 Code, Ch. 154, App. B)  (Ord. 464, passed 1- -1996; Ord. 98-229,
passed 6-9-1998; Ord. 98-241, passed 10-13-1998; Ord. 99-249, passed 3-2-1999)


Disclaimer:
This Code of Ordinances and/or any other documents that appear on this site
may not reflect the most current legislation adopted by the Municipality.
American Legal Publishing Corporation provides these documents for
informational purposes only. These documents should not be relied upon as the
definitive authority for local legislation. Additionally, the formatting and
pagination of the posted documents varies from the formatting and pagination
of the official copy. The official printed copy of a Code of Ordinances
should be consulted prior to any action being taken.

For further information regarding the official version of any of this Code of
Ordinances or other documents posted on this site, please contact the
Municipality directly or contact American Legal Publishing toll-free at
800-445-5588.


                 © 2018 American Legal Publishing Corporation
                            techsupport@amlegal.com
                                1.800.445.5588.




CHAPTER 155: ANTI-BLIGHT REGULATIONS



Section



   155.01   Purpose



   155.02   Findings



   155.03   Definitions



   155.04   Exceptions



   155.05   Location of sexually-oriented businesses



   155.06   Sign restrictions for sexually-oriented businesses



 



   155.99   Penalty



§ 155.01  PURPOSE.



   The purpose of this chapter is to control, through zoning regulations,
certain land uses that have a direct and detrimental effect on the character
of the city’s residential and commercial neighborhoods. The City Council
specifically recognizes the sanctity and fundamental nature of free speech
and does not intend to regulate or ban speech based on content.



(2004 Code, § 155.01)



§ 155.02  FINDINGS.



   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect
sexually-oriented businesses have on the character of the city’s
neighborhoods. In making these findings, the City Council accepts the
recommendations and conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General’s
Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually-Oriented Businesses, dated
6-6-1989, a copy of which is adopted by reference. This chapter shall have no
force and effect until the City Council accepts these recommendations by
resolution of a majority of its members, using the model resolution contained
in App. A of Ch. 121 of this code.



   (A)   Sexually-oriented businesses have an impact on the
neighborhoods surrounding them which is distinct from the impact caused by
other uses.



   (B)   Residential and commercial neighborhoods located within close
proximity to sexually-oriented businesses experience the following negative
impacts:



      (1)   Increased crime rates, particularly in sex-related
crimes such as rapes, prostitution, indecent exposure and other lewd and
lascivious behavior;



      (2)   Property values which are either diminished or fail to
appreciate at the rate of other comparable properties not located in
proximity to sexually-oriented businesses;



      (3)   Increased transiency and decreased stability of
ownership;



      (4)   Deteriorated neighborhood appearance from litter and
graffiti;



      (5)   Sex-related harassment of residents and customers by
motorists and pedestrians;



      (6)   A perception that the area is “unsafe”; and



      (7)   Difficulty in attracting and retaining customers,
employees and desirable tenants.



   (C)   The adverse impacts which sexually-oriented businesses have on
surrounding areas diminish as the distance from the sexually-oriented
business increases.



   (D)   The adverse impacts of sexually-oriented businesses are
exacerbated when the uses are located near each other.



   (E)   The presence of liquor establishments in the immediate
vicinity of sexually-oriented businesses also compounds the adverse impacts
on the neighborhood.



   (F)   Sexually-oriented businesses can exert a dehumanizing
influence on persons attending places of worship, children attending day care
centers or schools and people using public parks and libraries.



   (G)   Sexually-oriented businesses can significantly contribute to
the deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can impair the character
and quality of the residential housing in the area where they are located,
thereby exacerbating the shortage of affordable and habitable housing for
city residents.



   (H)   The concentration of sexually-oriented businesses in one area
can have a substantially detrimental effect on that area and on the overall
quality of urban life. A cycle of decay can result from the influx and
concentration of sexually-oriented businesses. The presence of such
businesses is perceived by others as an indication that the area is
deteriorating and the result can be devastating: other businesses move out of
the vicinity and residents flee from the area. The resulting decline in real
estate values erodes the city’s tax base and contributes to overall urban
blight.



   (I)   Land-use regulations are appropriate to minimize the
detrimental effects that sexually-oriented businesses have on adjacent land
uses.



(2004 Code, § 155.02)



§ 155.03  DEFINITIONS.



   The following words and terms shall have the following meanings when
used in this section, except as provided otherwise in § 155.04.



   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:



      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria,
measured on a daily, weekly, monthly or yearly basis:



         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade
or publicly displayed merchandise in sexually-oriented materials;



         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not
including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements or any portion of the
business not open to the public) to sexually-oriented materials; or



         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from
sexually-oriented materials.



      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a
sexually-oriented use as defined in this section, or any other use that has
an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and
other objects or devices, which:



      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas;



      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are
primarily used only with or during, specified sexual activities; or



      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.



   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED USE. Includes any of the following activities and
businesses, even if the activity exists for only a short-time.



      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business
that provides the service of applying paint, ink or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.



      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for
the barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audiotape, videotape, movies or motion picture film if it
meets the criteria established in the definition of “sexually-oriented
business”, as defined in this section.



      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides
dancing or other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on:



         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or



         (b)   The presentation, display or depiction of matter
that seeks to evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.



      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or
establishment that provides the service of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or
establishment that provides the services of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.



      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.



      (8)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or
establishment with a capacity of less than 50 persons that as a prevailing
practice presents on-premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.



      (9)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that
provides live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or
sexual gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display
specified anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon,
sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted.



      (10)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the
public is permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.



      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater
with a capacity of 50 or more persons that as a prevailing practice presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.



      (12)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business
that has a variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in
the definition of “sexually-oriented business,” as defined in this
section.



      (13)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of
age, and that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose
of bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.



      (14)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or
portion of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room
used for the purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the
building or portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if
the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.



      (15)   MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health
club that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:



      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic area, buttock, anus or female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and



      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal,
whether or not completely and opaquely covered.



   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include the following:



      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral
copulation; anal intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct
physical stimulation of unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the
context of a sexual relationship; the use of excretory functions in the
context of a sexual relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia;
cunnilingus; fellatio; necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;



      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;



      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral
copulation, coitus or masturbation;



      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts;



      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom
are nude, who are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and
engaged in the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical
restraint of any person;



      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other
sexually-oriented contact with an animal by a human being; or



      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or
anal irrigation, in the context of a sexual relationship.



(2004 Code, § 155.03)  (Ord. 11-0668, passed 5-10-2011)



§ 155.04  EXCEPTIONS.



   This section does not regulate the following:



   (A)   Any material with significant literary content or social
commentary;



   (B)   A business where sexually-oriented materials are sold,
bartered, distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site
use or entertainment, if:



      (1)   The sexually-oriented material on each item is blocked
from view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be
amended from time to time; and



      (2)   Each item is in an area accessible only by an employee
of the business.



   (C)   Any person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295, as
it may be amended from time to time;



   (D)   Any activity regulated under M.S. § 617.202, as it may be
amended from time to time;



   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so
long as no sexually-oriented materials are for sale and the business does not
have a liquor license; and



   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.



(2004 Code, § 155.04)



§ 155.05  LOCATION OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.



   (A)   A sexually-oriented business may locate only in the I-1 and
I-2 Zones by conditional use permit.



   (B)   No person may operate a sexually-oriented business on
property, any part of which is within the area circumscribed by a circle that
has a radius of 250 feet from any of the uses listed below. Distances must be
measured by following a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, between the closest points on the boundary lines of
the property parcels where the two uses are located. This distance
requirement applies to the following uses:



      (1)   Property used or zoned for residential uses;



      (2)   A day care facility, school, library, park, playground,
religious institution or other public recreational facility;



      (3)   Premises licensed under city code Ch. 112 , Liquor
Regulations; and



      (4)   Another sexually-oriented business.



(2004 Code, § 155.05)  (Ord. 11-0668, passed 5-10-2011)



§ 155.06  SIGN RESTRICTIONS FOR SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.



   (A)   In order to protect children from exposure to lurid signs and
materials, to avoid the appearance that the windows are boarded up and that
the property is deteriorating, and to preserve the value of property
surrounding sexually-oriented businesses, the following sign regulations
apply to all sexually-oriented businesses.



   (B)   To the extent that the following provisions are inconsistent
with this code, the following provisions apply.



      (1)   All signs must be flat wall signs. No signs may be
freestanding, located on the roof or contain any flashing lights, moving
elements or electronically or mechanically changing messages.



      (2)   No merchandise, photos or pictures of the products or
entertainment on the premises may be displayed in or immediately behind
window areas or any other area, if they can be viewed from outside the
portion of the building in which the business is located.



      (3)   Window areas must not be covered or made opaque in any
way. No signs may be placed in a window. A sign no larger than one square
foot must be placed on the main entrance door and must state, “adults
only”. The letters of this message must be a minimum of two inches high.
The only other information on this sign may be the hours of operation.



(2004 Code, § 155.06)



§ 155.99  PENALTY.



   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor under state law and is
subject to the penalties and provisions of § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.



(2004 Code, § 155.99)



CHAPTER 156: TRUNK HIGHWAY 7 ACCESS MANAGEMENT OVERLAY



Section



   156.01   Title



   156.02   Purpose and relationship to other ordinances



   156.03   Definitions



   156.04   Applicability



   156.05   Administration



   156.06   Districts established and assigned



   156.07   District standards



   156.08   Design standards for all districts



   156.09   Modification of access standards



   156.10   Appeals



§ 156.01  TITLE.



   This chapter will be known and referred to as the “Trunk Highway 7
Access Management Overlay Ordinance”. When referred to hereafter, it will
be known as “this chapter”.



(2004 Code, § 156.01)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.02  PURPOSE AND RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER ORDINANCES.



   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the
location and general design of public and private access to Trunk Highway 7
in order to:



      (1)   Promote the safety and mobility of the traveling public;



      (2)   Provide safe and convenient access between Trunk Highway
7 and the surrounding area consistent with the highway’s functional
classification as an arterial and designation as a high priority regional
corridor within the State Trunk Highway System;



      (3)   Ensure that all property is provided reasonably
convenient and suitable access;



      (4)   Support orderly economic development/redevelopment of
the surrounding area; and



      (5)   Support the development of a coordinated supporting road
network in urban and urbanizing areas.



   (B)   Conformance with comprehensive plan and state transportation
guidelines. This chapter implements the goals and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan and the Trunk Highway 7 Access Management Plan. In
addition, this chapter conforms with the Highway Access Category System and
Spacing Guidelines of the State Department of Transportation and the access
management policies of the State Transportation Plan.



   (C)   Access Management Overlay Zone established. This chapter
establishes an Access Management Overlay Zone. The requirements of this
chapter apply within this zone and supplement the requirements of the city
zoning, subdivision and other regulations that govern the use and development
of property within the city. Therefore, all standards and requirements of
this chapter are in addition to the requirements of the city zoning and
subdivision ordinances.



      (1)   Any parcel of land located within this Overlay Zone is
subject to all requirements of the underlying zoning district.



      (2)   If there is a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and any provision of the city zoning, subdivision or other
regulation, the more restrictive provision will apply.



(2004 Code, § 156.02)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.03  DEFINITIONS.



   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



   ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide vehicular or pedestrian
entrance or exit to a property from an abutting property or public road.



   ACCESS, COMMERCIAL. A private driveway, entrance or road that provides
access to more than three residential units; one or more commercial,
industrial, institutional or multiple family uses; or an agricultural feedlot.



   ACCESS, FIELD. An entrance to an agricultural field used for the
movement of farm vehicles and equipment. However, an entrance to a farmstead,
feedlot or farm-related structures is not a field access.



   ACCESS, RESIDENTIAL. A private driveway, entrance or road that provides
access to three or fewer residential units, which may be either individual
detached units or attached within a single structure; a farmstead; or
farm-related structures not including an agricultural feedlot.



   ACCESS CONNECTION. Any driveway, entrance, road, turnout or other means
of providing for the movement of vehicles to or from the public road system.



   ACCESS MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATOR. An administrative officer, such as the
Planning/Zoning Director or City Engineer, as designated by the City Council
to administer this chapter.



   BUILD-OUT PLAN. A plan or concept that depicts full development of
property according to the requirements of the existing underlying zoning
district and/or the Comprehensive Plan.



   CORNER CLEARANCE. The distance from an intersection of a public or
private road to the nearest access connection, measured along the edge of the
traveled way, from the closest edge of the pavement of the intersecting road
to the closest edge of the pavement of the connection.



   DRIVEWAY, SHARED. A single driveway that is shared by two or more uses
on one or more properties.



   INTERSECTION, MINOR. An intersection that does not meet the spacing
standards for a primary or secondary intersection with Trunk Highway 7 that
is necessary to provide reasonable connectivity to an area otherwise isolated
from the local street network due to historic development patterns or
topography. MINOR INTERSECTIONS are not intended for signalization and
turning movements may be restricted.



   INTERSECTION, PRIMARY. An intersection planned and designed to serve as
a major connection between Trunk Highway 7 and the local road network.
PRIMARY INTERSECTIONS allow turning movements in all directions and may be
signalized if warranted.



   INTERSECTION, SECONDARY. An intersection planned and designed to
supplement primary intersections as needed to provide adequate connectivity
between the local road system and Trunk Highway 7. SECONDARY INTERSECTIONS
are generally located midway between primary intersections and not intended
for signalization. To maintain safe traffic flow of the arterial roadway and
signal progression through primary intersections, turning movements may be
restricted.



   MODIFICATION OF ACCESS STANDARDS. A procedure to consider approval of
modifications of the standards of this chapter, if deemed necessary to allow
reasonable economic use of property as permitted by the underlying zoning and
ensure reasonably convenient and suitable access to a legal lot or parcel of
record.



   MN/DOT. The Minnesota Department of Transportation.



   RELATED APPLICATION. An application for a zoning permit or subdivision
approval for a proposed development that also requires approval of an access
management plan under the provisions of this chapter.



   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances, as may be
amended from time to time.



   ZONING ORDINANCE.Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances, as may be amended
from time to time.



(2004 Code, § 156.03)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.04  APPLICABILITY.



   (A)   Location. All land within one mile (5,280 feet) of the
centerline of Trunk Highway 7 in the city are in the access management
overlay zone and subject to this chapter.



   (B)   Scope.



      (1)   From the effective date of this chapter, the provisions
of this chapter apply to the general location and design of the public street
network and access to property within the Access Management Overlay Zone.



      (2)   Accesses that were legally established, but are not in
conformance with the standards of this chapter, are considered non-conforming
accesses and may continue in existence under the conditions established in
division (D) below.



   (C)   Exemption. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any
field access.



   (D)   Non-conforming access.



      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this subdivision is to recognize
the existence of access connections to Trunk Highway 7 which were lawful when
established but do not meet the requirements of this chapter; discourage the
expansion and/or intensification in use of such access; and encourage the
elimination of non-conforming accesses or reduce their negative impacts on
Trunk Highway 7 and the surrounding area.



      (2)   Continuation of non-conforming access. Any access
connection in place as of the date of adoption of this chapter that does not
conform with the standards herein is a non-conforming feature that will be
allowed to continue as long as there is no physical change in the access,
change in the land use served by the access or intensification of the land
use served by the access. Normal maintenance and repair of the access shall
not be considered to be a physical change in the access.



      (3)   Change in use of non-conforming access. If there is a
change in land use or the intensity of the land use served by a
non-conforming access as defined in § 156.05(A) of this chapter, the
non-conforming access must be eliminated or brought into conformance with the
standards of this chapter.



      (4)   Discontinuation of non-conforming access. If the use of
the non-conforming access is discontinued for more than one year, the access
must not be re-established unless approved under the provisions of § 156.05
of this chapter.



      (5)   Discontinuation of non-conforming use. If the use or
structures of the property served by a non-conforming access is a legal
non-conformity according the zoning ordinance and is discontinued for more
than one year, or if the non-conformity is destroyed by fire or other peril
to an extent greater than 50% of its market value, any subsequent access
serving the property must conform to the provisions of this chapter.



   (E)   Conditional uses. In addition to the findings and review
criteria established in § 154.070 of this chapter, approval of a conditional
use requires full compliance with the standards of this chapter. A
modification of access standards will not be approved for a conditional use.



(2004 Code, § 156.04)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.05  ADMINISTRATION.



   (A)   Access plan approval required. Approval of an access plan is
required prior to any one of the following events:



      (1)   The approval of any land subdivision, conditional use
permit, interim use permit, site plan, or zoning-related permit for any
property located within the Access Management Overlay Zone;



      (2)   The construction of any new public or private access to
Trunk Highway 7 or to a public street that intersects directly with Trunk
Highway 7;



      (3)   The reconstruction or relocation of any existing public
or private access to Trunk Highway 7 or to a public street that intersects
directly with Trunk Highway 7;



      (4)   A change in the primary use of land (for example, a
change from agricultural to industrial, residential to commercial or office
to retail) that may change the amount of traffic using any existing private
access to Trunk Highway 7; or



      (5)   A change in the intensity of the land use served by a
commercial access to Trunk Highway 7, defined as either an increase in the
gross floor area of a primary or accessory structure by 25% or 500 square
feet, whichever is greater, or an increase in the number of parking stalls by
25% or five stalls, whichever is greater.



   (B)   Access plan application requirements. An access plan
consisting of a sketch plan of the property and the surrounding area, drawn
to scale, must be submitted to the Access Management Administrator. The
access plan must provide the following information:



      (1)   The dimensions of the property and the location of
public rights-of-way and property lines;



      (2)   The existing and proposed land use. For residential
uses, indicate the number of units. For all other uses, indicate the specific
type of use, square footage of existing and proposed structures, number of
employees and number of parking spaces;



      (3)   The location and dimensions of existing and proposed
structures, accesses, parking, drive aisles and internal circulation;



      (4)   The location of local streets and roads serving the
surrounding area, the land use on adjacent parcels, and the location of and
distance to public or private access serving adjacent parcels;



      (5)   If the property is planned to be developed in phases or
could be further subdivided in conformance with the underlying zoning, a
build-out plan specifying location, size and timing of additional parcels
and/or structures and parking;



      (6)   A traffic impact study, if requested by Mn/DOT, any
other affected road authority or the Access Management Administrator;



      (7)   A signal justification report, if a traffic signal is
proposed as part of the plan; and



      (8)   Any other information reasonably required by the city.



   (C)   Access plan review and approval.



      (1)   Approving authority. If the proposed development
requires any additional approval according to the underlying zoning or
subdivision ordinance, the access plan will be reviewed and acted upon as a
supplement to those requirements and according to the procedures established
for the related application. If the proposed development does not require
additional review and approval, the Access Management Administrator reviews
and approves or denies the access plan.



      (2)   Coordination with affected road authorities. The Access
Management Administrator must notify and consult with Mn/DOT and any other
affected road authority regarding the proposed access plan and must consider
their comments and recommendations in the review of the plan. Review and
approval of an access plan required under this chapter does not substitute
for compliance with the access permit regulations of Mn/DOT or any other
affected road authority.



      (3)   General considerations. To determine whether the
proposed access plan meets the standards of this chapter, the approving
authority must consider all of the following factors:



         (a)   Relationship to the existing and proposed land use
for the city; the transportation and road network plans of the city, county
and state; and the Trunk Highway 7 Access Management Plan;



         (b)   The potential for future subdivision and
development of the property and other properties in the vicinity of the
proposed access;



         (c)   The adequacy of existing or planned roadways to
accommodate the proposed development in a safe and cost effective manner;



         (d)   Environmental conditions affecting the area such
as wetlands, floodplains, shorelands, slopes and cultural resources;



         (e)   Existing, planned and potential future access and
circulation to adjacent properties;



         (f)   Comments from Mn/DOT or any other affected road
authority;



         (g)   If a signal is proposed, review and comments from
the affected road authority pertaining to a signal justification report; and



         (h)   The findings and conclusions of any related
studies such as an environmental assessment, traffic impact analysis or
signal justification report.



      (4)   Measurements. The spacing between accesses will be
measured as follows:



         (a)   Public intersections must be measured from the
centerline of the intersection under review to the centerline of the next
intersection or the nearest edge of the next driveway.



         (b)   Private driveways must be measured from the
nearest edge of the driveway under review to the nearest edge of the next
driveway or the centerline of the next intersection.



         (c)   An access will be considered in compliance with
the spacing requirements if the measurement does not deviate more than 5%
from the spacing standards established in this chapter.



      (5)   Findings of approval. An access plan must be approved by
the designated authority as provided in division (C)(1)  above if the plan:



         (a)   Complies with the standards and conditions set
forth in §§ 156.07 and 156.08 of this chapter for the applicable Access
Management District; or



         (b)   Satisfies the findings of approval for a
modification of access standards as described in § 156.09 of this chapter.



      (6)   Conditions of approval. The Access Management
Administrator or other designated authority may add conditions to the
approval of the access plan to ensure compliance with the spirit and intent
of this chapter.



   (D)   Construction responsibilities and security deposit.



      (1)   Responsibilities. The applicant is responsible for all
costs associated with implementation of the access plan, including the
construction of improvements required to meet any conditions of approval.
Improvements may include the construction of the access or intersection, turn
lanes, medians, connecting roadways or driveways, drainage devices and
structures, associated grading and site restoration, and the acquisition
and/or dedication of necessary right-of-way as permitted by law.



      (2)   Security deposit. The applicant must provide a security
deposit in a form and amount acceptable to the city to guarantee provision of
any required improvements associated with the approved access plan.



      (3)   Compliance. The intersection or access must be
constructed in complete compliance with the approved access plan. If the
Access Management Administrator finds that the construction has not been
completed as approved, the security deposit provided in division (D)(2) above
may be used by the city to complete or repair the access improvements in
compliance with the approved access plan.



   (E)   Duration of approval. If the access has not been constructed
or utilized within one year after approval of the access plan, the approval
expires unless a time extension is granted by the original approving
authority. To request an extension, a written request explaining the need for
the extension must be submitted to the Access Management Administrator at
least 14 days before the expiration of the  original approval. The original
approving authority must determine whether to grant the extension or require
submission and review of a new application.



(2004 Code, § 156.05)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.06  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED AND ASSIGNED.



   (A)   Districts established. Three separate Access Management
Overlay Districts are established within the Overlay Zone to recognize
variations in the characteristics and function of the highway and the
existing and planned land use in the surrounding area.



      (1)   Urban Core Access Management District. The Urban Core
District extends through the fully developed center of the city where the
road network is characterized by short blocks and a grid system of
intersecting streets. Individual lots are typically small and buildings may
be located close to streets. Sidewalks, pedestrian traffic and on-street
parking are common. Trunk Highway 7 is planned to operate at lower speeds,
typically 30 to 35 mph, compared to the speeds for the overall corridor.



      (2)   Urbanizing Access Management District. The Urbanizing
District is established to guide the location and design of access in areas
beyond the Urban Core that are currently urbanized or planned for future
urbanization with a full range of urban services, including a local
supporting road network. Trunk Highway 7 is planned to operate at a somewhat
reduced speed, typically 40 to 50 mph, through this district, compared to the
speed of the overall corridor.



      (3)   Rural Access Management District. The Rural District is
established to guide access location and rural subdivision design decisions
within the portion of the Trunk Highway 7 Corridor extending through
long-term agricultural areas with limited residential and commercial
development, as provided in the Comprehensive Plan. The highway is planned to
operate at higher speeds through this district, typically 50 mph or more.



   (B)   Assignment of districts within the Overlay Zone. All property
within the Access Management Overlay Zone is assigned to an Access Management
District as defined in division (A) and designated in Table 1 of this section.



 

Table 1
Access Management District Assignment


5th Avenue NE to East Hutchinson city limits
 
Urbanizing District


Highway Segment
 
Access Management District


School Road to 5th Avenue NE
 
Urban Core District


West Hutchinson city limits to School Road
 
Urbanizing District



 



(2004 Code, § 156.06)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.07  DISTRICT STANDARDS.



   All access to Trunk Highway 7 must conform to the spacing and design
standards provided in Table 2 and as follows.



 


Table 2
District Access Spacing and Allowance Standards



Access Type
 

Urban Core

 

Urbanizing

 

Rural





Public street connection spacing


Minor intersections
 

Not applicable

 

No. by modification only

 

No. by modification only



Primary intersections
 

1/4 to 1/2 mile

 

1/2 mile

 

1 mile



Secondary intersections
 

Not applicable

 

1/4 mile from a primary intersection

 

1/2 mile from a primary intersection



Private access allowance


Commercial driveways
 

Subject to conditions

 

No. by modification only

 

Subject to conditions



Residential driveways
 

If alternate access is not available, one per parcel

 

No. by modification only

 

If alternate access is not available, one per parcel





 



   (A)   Public street connections. All streets proposed to connect to
Trunk Highway 7 must meet the spacing standards of the applicable district as
provided in Table 2 and below.



      (1)   Standards for primary intersections.



         (a)   A primary intersection is permitted according to
the spacing standards of the applicable Access Management District as
provided in Table 2 above and Figures 2 and 3 of the Trunk Highway 7 Access
Management Plan.



         (b)   The street connecting to Trunk Highway 7 at a
primary intersection must be functionally planned and designed as an arterial
or collector street, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.



         (c)   A primary intersection may be designed as a full
movement intersection.



         (d)   A primary intersection may be signalized if
determined necessary to facilitate the safe flow of traffic between the
highway and the supporting street network. Signalization is subject to
approval of a Signal Justification Report by the Mn/DOT and any other
affected road authority.



      (2)   Standards for secondary street intersections.



         (a)   A secondary intersection is permitted midway
between and one-half of the spacing of primary intersections as provided in
Table 2 above and Figures 2 and 3 of the Trunk Highway 7 Access Management
Plan.



         (b)   Any street connecting to Trunk Highway 7 at a
Secondary Intersection must be functionally planned and designed as a
collector or arterial street, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer;



         (c)   Mn/DOT may restrict turning movements at a
secondary intersection to ensure the safety and mobility of Trunk Highway 7;
and



         (d)   Secondary intersections are not intended to be
signalized.



      (3)   Standards for minor street intersections. The approving
authority may permit a minor street connection to Trunk Highway 7 in an
Urbanizing or Rural District only as a modification of standards as set forth
in § 156.09 of this chapter.



      (4)   Standards for all street intersections.



         (a)   A street intersection must not be located within a
turn lane to another public street or a private driveway;



         (b)   The intersection must be located to provide
adequate intersection sight distance, as provided in Table 3 below:



 


Table 3
Stopping and Intersection Sight Distance




Posted Speed (mph)

 

Stopping Sight Distance (Ft.)*

 

Intersection Sight Distance (Ft.)**




Right-Turning Vehicles

 

Left-Turning Vehicles






25

 

155

 

240

 

280




30

 

200

 

290

 

335




35

 

250

 

335

 

390




40

 

305

 

385

 

445




45

 

360

 

430

 

500




50

 

425

 

480

 

555




55

 

495

 

530

 

610



NOTES TO TABLE:

Source: ASSHTO Green Book 2001

* Stopping sight distance is based on a level roadway without horizontal
curvature. It is measured from the nearest edges of two adjacent entrances.
On two-lane undivided roadways, adjacent entrances may be on opposite sides
of the road.

** The intersection sight distance shown is for a stopped passenger car to
cross or turn onto a two-lane highway with no median and a grade of 3% or
less.




 



         (c)   The minimum spacing between a street intersection
and the next street intersection or commercial access to Trunk Highway 7 must
conform to the stopping sight distance associated with the posted speed
limit, as provided in Table 3 above;



         (d)   Turn lanes must be provided as recommended by
Mn/DOT or the affected road authority;



         (e)   On undivided roadways, street connections on
opposing sides of Trunk Highway 7 must be aligned with one another to the
extent practicable;



         (f)   As illustrated in Figure 1, any public or private
access to a street connecting to Trunk Highway 7 must be located at least the
minimum distance from the centerline of Trunk Highway 7 as provided in Table
4.



 


Table 4
Access Spacing for Streets Connecting to Trunk Highway 7



Intersecting Street Type
 

Connecting Street Type




Two-Lane (Feet)

 

Four-Lane (Feet)



Primary
 

500

 

660



Secondary
 

125

 

125



Minor
 

75

 

75




 



   (B)   Private access.



      (1)   Access allowance in urban core and rural districts.



         (a)   A parcel will be permitted one private access to
Trunk Highway 7 only if reasonably convenient and suitable alternative access
is not available or attainable from the local road network or by a shared
driveway with an adjacent parcel.



         (b)   A private access designed to serve four or more
residential lots or a single parcel with the potential for future subdivision
into four or more lots must be considered under the requirements for a public
street connection.



      (2)   Access allowance in urbanizing districts. Private access
to Trunk Highway 7 is permitted only upon approval of a modification of
standards as set forth in § 156.09 of this chapter.



      (3)   Access standards. Private access to Trunk Highway 7 is
subject to the standards below. If any of these standards cannot be met, the
access may only be approved as a Modification of Access Standards as set
forth in § 156.09 of this chapter.



         (a)   A private access must be located on the property
to provide adequate intersection sight distance as provided in Table 3;



         (b)   A private access connection must not be located
within a turn lane to a public street or another private driveway;



         (c)   The minimum spacing between commercial access
connections or between a commercial access and a public street connection
must conform to the stopping sight distance requirements in Table 3 above:



            1.   If lot frontage is inadequate to provide the
required minimum spacing, access must be provided via a shared entrance or
cross access easement with an adjacent property, unless a modification is
granted under § 156.09 of this chapter;



            2.   To maintain minimum safe spacing between
commercial accesses as development occurs, a commercial access may be
required to serve adjacent property by a shared entrance located on the
common property line or a cross access easement; and



            3.    When required to provide a shared entrance
or cross access easement, the property owners must record an easement
allowing cross access to and from the properties served by the shared
driveway or cross access. The recorded easement must include a joint
maintenance agreement defining the maintenance responsibilities of the
property owners;



         (d)   On undivided roadways, access connections on
opposing sides of streets must be aligned with one another to the extent
practicable;



         (e)   Turn lanes must be provided as recommended by
Mn/DOT or the affected road authority; and



         (f)   Turning movements to and from a private access may
be restricted at the time of construction or at a future date based upon
existing or anticipated roadway conditions.



(2004 Code, § 156.07)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.08  DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ALL DISTRICTS.



   (A)   Subdivision standards. All subdivisions in the Overlay Zone
must meet all of the following design standards.



      (1)   The street system of a proposed subdivision shall be
designed to meet the public street spacing provided in this division and to
coordinate with existing, proposed and planned streets serving the
surrounding area.



      (2)   All access to individual lots shall be provided from the
internal street system. A prohibition of access to Trunk Highway 7 shall be
recorded in the chain of title of each lot within the subdivision.



      (3)   Where a proposed development abuts undeveloped land or a
future phase of the same development, street stubs shall be provided as
deemed necessary by the approval authority to provide access to abutting
properties or to logically extend the street system into the surrounding
area. All street stubs shall be provided with a temporary turn-around or
cul-de-sac and shall be signed to indicate that future extension is planned.



   (B)   Commercial site design standards. To ensure safe vehicular
movement, property with commercial access must meet all of the following
design standards.



      (1)   Sites must be designed to promote safe internal access
between parking areas, buildings and future development areas on the property
and on adjacent properties.



      (2)   Backing, loading, unloading or other maneuvers must be
accommodated on the site.



      (3)   The design of any access to Trunk Highway 7, including
the width, grade and radii shall conform with Mn/DOT guidelines and standards.



      (4)   The driveway must be of sufficient length to allow
vehicles to circulate on the site without causing vehicles using the access
to interfere with traffic movement on Trunk Highway 7.



   (C)   Residential access. Residential access must be designed so
vehicles have can turn around on the property without backing on to Trunk
Highway 7.



(2004 Code, § 156.08)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.09  MODIFICATION OF ACCESS STANDARDS.



   (A)   Purpose. The city recognizes that the complete and
interconnected supporting local street network necessary for full compliance
with this chapter may not be available due to conditions beyond the control
of the individual property owner. The following procedure has been
established to consider modifications of the access standards when necessary
to allow reasonable economic use of property as permitted by the underlying
zoning and to provide reasonably convenient and suitable access to every
legal lot or parcel of record.



   (B)   Application requirements. An application for a modification of
access standards shall include:



      (1)   A complete access plan as required in § 156.05 of this
chapter; and



      (2)   Additional information as may be required by the Access
Management Administrator or recommended by Mn/DOT or other affected road
authority, such as a traffic impact study or a signal justification report.



   (C)   Procedures for review and approval. The procedures for the
review and approval of a modification of access standards shall be the same
as for an access plan as specified in § 156.05 of this chapter.



   (D)   Findings for approval of modification of access standards.



      (1)   Public street connections. The approving authority may
approve a public street connection as a modification of access standards when
the proposed street connection meets all of the following findings:



         (a)   The proposed street connection is necessary to
provide reasonable connectivity to the supporting road network or to provide
access to an area that is otherwise isolated due to topography, unique
natural features, or existing land use and street patterns;



         (b)   The proposed street connection is necessary for
the property to be put to reasonable economic use as permitted by the
underlying zoning; and



         (c)   The proposed street connection conforms to the
extent practicable with the access spacing, location, and design standards in
§§ 156.07 and 156.08 of this chapter.



      (2)   Private access. The approving authority may approve a
private access as a modification of access standards when the proposed access
meets all of the following findings:



         (a)   The property retains access rights.



         (b)   Reasonably convenient and suitable alternative
access is not available or attainable from the local road network or by
shared access and/or cross access to adjacent properties due to one or more
of the following circumstances:



            1.   Use of the alternative access would disrupt a
protected wetland under the Wetland Conservation Act, being M.S. §§
103G.221 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, a protected
shoreland under the Shoreline Zoning Act, or a steep slope (greater than 12%);



            2.   The affected road authority will not
authorize the necessary extension of the connecting road system;



            3.   The adjacent property owner will not
authorize the necessary shared access or cross-access agreement; or



            4.   The affected road authority will not
authorize use of the local connecting road system due to projected impacts of
the anticipated traffic on the structural or geometric capacity of the
roadway or the safety and livability of the surrounding area.



         (c)   The proposed private access connection is
necessary for the property to be put to reasonable economic use as permitted
by the underlying zoning.



         (d)   The proposed private access conforms to the extent
practicable with the access spacing, location and design standards in §§
156.07 and 156.08 of this chapter.



   (E)   Conditions of approval. The approving authority may attach
conditions to the approval of a modification of access standards as deemed
necessary to promote the spirit and intent of this chapter.



      (1)   The access may be approved as an interim access to be
phased out at a future time or condition;



      (2)   Turning movement to and from the access may be
restricted at the time of construction or at a future date, based upon
existing or anticipated traffic volumes;



      (3)   The access may be required to serve existing or future
adjacent property by a shared entrance or cross access easement as provided
in § 156.07(B)(3) of this chapter; or



      (4)   Other conditions may be required based on the
conclusions and recommendations of a traffic impact study and/or the review
by Mn/DOT or another affected road authority.



(2004 Code, § 156.09)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



§ 156.10  APPEALS.



   (A)   Applicant may appeal decision. An applicant whose access plan
is not approved, or is approved with conditions not agreed to by the
applicant, shall have 30 days to appeal the decision in writing, stating the
reasons for which an appeal should be approved. Appeals of decisions approved
by the Access Management Administrator must be considered according to the
procedures set forth for variances under the Zoning Code. Appeals of
decisions on access plans incorporated in related applications shall be
considered according to the procedures for appeals set forth in the zoning
and subdivision ordinances.



   (B)   Notice to road authorities. The Access Management
Administrator must notify any affected road authority, including Mn/DOT, a
minimum of ten days prior to the scheduled public hearing for the appeal.



   (C)   Conditions. The city may impose conditions on the approval of
any appeal as necessary to effect compliance with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.



(2004 Code, § 156.10)  (Ord. 03-361, passed 5-25-2004)



CHAPTER 157: RIVER OVERLAY DISTRICT



Section



   157.01   Title



   157.02   Purpose and relationship to other ordinances



   157.03   Appropriate land use



   157.04   Site layout



   157.05   Site landscaping and storm water management



   157.06   Architectural design and quality



   157.07   Signage and lighting



   Appendix A: River Overlay District Map



§ 157.01  TITLE.



   This chapter, included as part of the code of ordinances of the city,
shall be known and referred to as the “River Overlay District Chapter”.
When referred to hereafter, it shall be known as “this chapter”.



(2004 Code, § 157.01)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008)



§ 157.02  PURPOSE AND RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER ORDINANCES.



   (A)   River Overlay District established. This chapter establishes a
River Overlay District, as shown in the appendix to this chapter. The
requirements of this chapter apply within this district and supplement the
requirements of the city zoning, subdivision and other regulations that
govern the use and development of property within the city. Therefore, all
standards and requirements of this chapter are in addition to the
requirements of the city zoning and subdivision ordinances.



      (1)   Any parcel of land located within this overlay district
is subject to all requirements of the underlying zoning district.



      (2)   If there is a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and any provision of the city zoning, subdivision or other
regulation, the more restrictive provision will apply.



   (B)   Purpose.



      (1)   The purpose of River Overlay Design Guidelines and
Standards is to realize the vision, goals and objectives that were identified
in the Highway 7 Corridor Study and Area Plan. These design standards are
important to preserve and highlight the significant natural and historical
resources in the corridor along the South Fork of the Crow River and meet the
objectives identified in the corridor study. The objectives identified in the
plan are incorporated by reference and include:



         (a)   Maintain a friendly, small town atmosphere.



         (b)   Appreciate the historic riverfront, trails and
parkland.



         (c)   Establish destinations that are pedestrian
friendly.



         (d)   Create a stable, safe place to live, work and shop
Main Street and new mixed use development on these comers.



         (e)   Provide a distinct gateway at the intersection
with Highway 15.



      (2)   The design standards shall apply specifically to
properties within the adopted River Overlay District, which is incorporated
as a part of the city code. Standards shall be applied to redevelopment, new
developments, and all new buildings constructed within the district, except
as specifically exempted by this chapter. The guidelines provide more
detailed requirements for site planning, building placement, architecture,
building materials, landscaping and storm water improvements beyond those
identified in each zoning district. Review of all new buildings and
developments shall be conducted through the process identified in § 154.174
of this code of ordinances.



   (C)   Exemptions. The construction of new buildings, building
additions and accessory structures for legally existing uses established
before the adoption of this ordinance are exempted from the requirements of
the River Overlay District standards. Existing properties are not exempted
from meeting all other requirement of the city code, such as zoning ordinance
standards, storm water management requirements and all other applicable
regulations.



(2004 Code, § 157.02)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008)



§ 157.03  APPROPRIATE LAND USE.



   (A)   Land uses allowed in the overlay district are those identified
within the property’s zoning district established by the City of Hutchinson
Zoning Ordinance and map. A mix of appropriate land uses is encouraged in the
River Overlay District, with an emphasis on commercial uses. Uses should be
those that benefit from the high traffic volume and visibility of the
corridor while complimenting uses in the downtown.



   (B)   Community objectives include:



      (1)   Enhance the stability of this corridor with a
complementary mix of commercial uses appropriate to a growing community;



      (2)   Encourage a variety of uses which will support a
community atmosphere;



      (3)   Activate this Main Street intersection with a mix of
uses which will draw visitors into downtown;



      (4)   Provide the variety and density of uses that encourage
pedestrian activity;



      (5)   Entice travelers and commuters to stop and explore
Hutchinson with new opportunities to learn about the city; and



      (6)   Provide for full life-cycle housing with diverse,
higher-density, residential uses.



(2004 Code, § 157.03)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008)



§ 157.04  SITE LAYOUT.



   (A)   The overall site plan design for new developments shall
include the placement of buildings and site improvements with sensitivity to
the waterfront, river views and with respect for the natural resources of the
area. Community objectives include:



      (1)   Create a welcoming environment for residents and
visitors;



      (2)   Express a riverfront town character by establishing
river view corridors;



      (3)   Design new development to be respectful of the
waterfront and adjacent parkland or other natural resources;



      (4)   Connect new development to existing riverfront trails
and parkland with public sidewalks or connecting trails; and



      (5)   Link new development, popular destinations, and the
adjacent neighborhoods with safe, well designed pedestrian connections.



   (B)   The following design standards apply to construction within
the River Overlay District and are required to meet community objectives for
site layout.



      (1)   The placement of buildings shall be positioned to be
respectful to the river by maximizing river views and establishing river view
corridors. A perspective drawing of the proposed building and photos of the
site’s relationship to the river and surrounding properties shall be
provided with site plan application materials.



      (2)   Site design shall take into account the relationship
between the development to the waterfront, nearby parkland and natural
resources. Site amenities that take advantage of the proximity to these
resources are encouraged, such as outdoor dining opportunities, visitor
destinations and rest areas with bike racks and benches for bicyclists and
pedestrians are encouraged.



      (3)   Buildings shall be oriented to the street, with parking
next to or behind buildings.



      (4)   Parking shall be located and designed in a manner that
is complementary to the natural features of the site and building orientation.



      (5)   Large parking lots are discouraged and shall instead be
designed in a manner that large expanses of parking are broken up into
smaller areas with landscaped islands and pedestrian friendly areas, such as
pathways and plazas.



      (6)   A reduction in the number of parking spaces required may
be granted for shared parking facilities with complementary uses. A proof of
parking plan shall be submitted for future parking expansion under this
option.



      (7)   Site planning should provide for safe site access and
circulation which minimizes auto and pedestrian conflicts.



      (8)   Primary entrances to the buildings shall be designed and
located to maximize pedestrian access and connectivity to sidewalks and
trails. Pedestrian safety features shall be provided, such as crosswalk
striping or use of textured, colored paving.



      (9)   Service areas shall be located on the site in areas that
minimize their appearance and shall be screened with landscaping or
decorative fencing with supplemental landscaping. Fencing without landscaping
is not permitted.



(2004 Code, § 157.04)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008)



§ 157.05  SITE LANDSCAPING AND STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.



   (A)   New developments shall be designed with quality site
landscaping, creation of landscape buffers and screening, require parking lot
landscaping and street trees and encourage innovative approaches to reducing
run-off, increasing filtration and managing storm water. Community objectives
include:



      (1)   Create a welcoming environment for residents and
visitors;



      (2)   Design new development to be respectful of adjacent
parkland and other natural resources; and



      (3)   Protect the river with improved storm water run-off
management, slowing runoff rates and increasing filtration to reduce land
erosion and enhance river water quality.







   (B)   The following standards shall apply to construction within the
River Overlay District and are required to meet community objectives for site
landscaping and storm water management.



      (1)   A quality landscape plan shall be developed for the site
that addresses any site issues for the site, such as screening and parking
lot landscaping. Appropriate landscaping for year round buffering shall be
utilized with a mix of conifers along with deciduous plantings.



      (2)   Plant materials shall be combined to produce a mix of
scale of plant materials appropriate to the effect desired. A combination of
over-story trees along with under-story ornamental trees, shrubs, and
plantings is required.



      (3)   Use of native species and varieties of adaptable
non-native species are encouraged.



      (4)   A storm water management plan is required for any
additional impervious surface coverage and increased runoff rates or
pollutant loading in order to protect the river with improved storm water
run-off management, slowing run off rates and increasing filtration to reduce
erosion and enhance river water quality.



      (5)   The use of innovative approaches to run-off, such as the
use of rain gardens, vegetated strips, underground storage, and pervious
pavement are encouraged and may be required to meet storm water management
objectives.



      (6)   Environmentally sensitive site design and green building
construction that reduces runoff from structures, such as green roofs, is
encouraged.



(2004 Code, § 157.05)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008)



§ 157.06  ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN AND QUALITY.



   (A)   New buildings shall be designed and built with consideration
for design quality including building height and massing, colors and
materials and the character of the architecture. Community objectives include:



      (1)   Require new development to be appropriately designed and
scaled to maintain a small town feeling;



      (2)   Complement historic character with building styles
appropriate to downtown;



      (3)   Anchor the gateway with new, high quality buildings set
on the two north corners of the intersection;



      (4)   Reflect the massing and character of the historic power
plant in the new development to express the historic downtown architectural
character; and



      (5)   Express a riverfront town character by establishing
river view corridors and massing new development to preserve these views,
being respectful of the waterfront and adjacent parkland.



   (B)   The following standards shall apply to construction within the
River Overlay District to meet community objectives for architectural design
and quality.



      (1)   Building design review is required for all new buildings
requiring site plan review within the Overlay District to determine if the
building meets the community objectives identified above.



      (2)   Architecture of new buildings shall be respectful of
riverfront views in scale and design.



      (3)   Building design that reflects traditional historic main
street design and traditional store fronts is encouraged, such as two-story
buildings with flat roofs, store front windows, easily identifiable main
entrances and awnings.



      (4)   Building shall be designed with four-sided architecture,
with all four sides receiving design attention, quality materials and
exterior treatments.



      (5)   Quality, durable, building materials are required, such
as brick, stone, stucco, rock face concrete block and other durable
attractive materials.



      (6)   Environmentally friendly/green building design and
technology such as green roofs are encouraged.







(2004 Code, § 157.06)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. 15-0738,
passed 5-12-2015)



§ 157.07  SIGNAGE AND LIGHTING.



   (A)   This section addresses the quality and design of all signage
and lighting on the site or buildings. Lighting should be complimentary to
the architectural design goals, sensitive to adjacent uses and designed to
promote safety, especially for pedestrians. Community objectives include:



      (1)   Complement historic character with architectural signage
styles appropriate to downtown.



      (2)   Provide for signage which tells visitors about nearby
destinations and invites those ‘just passing through’ to stop and explore
historic Hutchinson.



      (3)   Communicate the importance of the river to this
community using signage, kiosks and/or visitor’s center, as well as other
tools.







   (B)   The following standards shall apply to construction within the
River Overlay District and are required to meet community objectives for
signage and lighting.



      (1)   All signage shall comply with the requirements with the
zoning district in which it is located; however properties within the Overlay
District are encouraged to use unique signage that promotes a riverfront town
feel and complements historic architectural styles.



      (2)   Building signage shall be designed to be integral into
the building architecture.



      (3)   Pedestrian scale way-finding signage is encouraged in
this district, to direct travelers, bicyclists, and walkers to site
amenities, such as to the riverfront, historical features, park and trail
amenities. Signage specifying business names or logos are not allowed,
however pedestrian scale signage directing pedestrians to restaurants and
shopping areas is permitted.



      (4)   A professional lighting plan shall be provided with all
site plans that identify the type of lighting, height, and specifications of
lighting fixtures. Light levels shall be identified on the lighting plan and
shall not exceed 0.5 foot candle at lot lines.



      (5)   All lighting shall have 90-degree cut-off fixtures to
minimize glare to adjacent properties.



      (6)   Path lighting shall be provided for pedestrian walkways
to parking lots and sidewalks or trail access points.



(2004 Code, § 157.07)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008)



APPENDIX A: RIVER OVERLAY DISTRICT MAP







(2004 Code, Ch. 157, App.)  (Ord. 08-0500, passed 5-13-2008)



TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES



   Table



      I.   NAMING AND RENAMING STREETS



      II.   AUTHORIZE ISSUANCE OF BONDS; OFF-STREET PARKING SYSTEM



      III.   GRANTS OF FRANCHISE; PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY



      IV.   GRANTS OF EASEMENT



      V.   GRANTS OF CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE



      VI.   SALE OF REAL ESTATE



      VII.   STREET, ALLEY AND EASEMENT VACATIONS



      VIII.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS



      IX.   ANNEXATIONS



TABLE I: NAMING AND RENAMING STREETS



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description


440
 
4-10-1973
 
Names street extension as Oakland Avenue


558
 
3-28-1978
 
Names tract of land in West River Park as Les Kouba Point and the roadway as
Les Kouba Parkway


 
 
 
 
 



 



 



TABLE II: AUTHORIZE ISSUANCE OF BONDS; OFF-STREET PARKING SYSTEM



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description


616
 
5-12-1981
 
Establishes an off-street parking system to be financed in whole or in part
by special assessments and the issuance of bonds


 
 
 
 
 



 



TABLE III: GRANTS OF FRANCHISE; PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description




646
 
5-11-1982
 
Grants franchise to Mark D. McGraw to maintain a popcorn and concession stand
(Public Square Library and Park) for a period of ten years


658
 
4-12-1983
 
Grants franchise to Arthur Benjamin, Sr., to operate and maintain a
below-ground storage area (First Avenue SW) for a period of 20 years


659
 
4-12-1983
 
Grants franchise to Arthur Benjamin, Sr., to operate and maintain a loading
ramp (Franklin Street) for a period of 20 years


669
 
8-9-1983
 
Grants franchise to Hutch Agri-Tech to maintain a structure (Lot 9, Block 4,
south half) for a period of 20 years


92-58
 
5-26-1992
 
Grants franchise to Mainstreet Association to operate a popcorn wagon on
certain city owned property, for three years


95-130
 
3-14-1995
 
Grants franchise to Joseph Dooley and Cheryl Dooley to allow existing
encroachment on the right-of-way abutting the north 51 feet of Lot 12, Block
7, south half, for 20 years


95-134
 
2-14-1995
 
Grants franchise to Cellular 7 Partnership to own and operate certain
equipment on top of the South Park Water Tower and adjacent thereto


95-135
 
3-14-1995
 
Grants franchise to Todd T. Alexander and Sue M. Alexander to allow existing
encroachment on utility easement in Lot 6 of Lot G Subdivision, for 20 years


96-181
 
10-22-1996
 
Grants franchise to Impressions Incorporated to place a monument sign on the
right-of-way at 235 Eastgate Drive SE in accordance with sign permit No.
1219, for 20 years


97-188
 
3-11-1997
 
Grants franchise to J.W. Hanson Construction Company, Inc., for an easement
for access purposes, on the southeasterly 30 feet of Lot 17, Park
Subdivision, as measured perpendicular to the southeast line of that lot, for
20 years


97-196
 
6-9-1997
 
Grants franchise to North Central Food Systems, Inc., for an easement for
access purposes, on the portion of Glen Street N in the north half, east of a
line running northerly along the centerline of that street for 304 feet from
the intersection of the centerlines of Third Avenue NW and Glen Street N,
except the westerly 17 feet thereof, for 20 years


97-203
 
8-12-1997
 
Grants franchise to Al Kramer and Virginia Kramer for an easement for access
purposes, on part of Washington Avenue (Lot 6, Block 48, north half), for 20
years


01-293
 
6-12-2001
 
Grants franchise to the Downtown Association to locate a sidewalk café for
food sales on the right-of-way abutting the south two-thirds of Lot 5, south
half, for three years


01-294
 
6-12-2001
 
Grants franchise to Lindo Mexican Restaurant to operate and maintain a
sidewalk café on the right-of-way abutting the south two-thirds of Lot 5,
south half, for one year


01-295
 
6-12-2001
 
Grants franchise to the Coffee Company to operate and maintain a sidewalk
café on the right-of-way adjacent to the south four feet of Lot 2 and the
north one-third of Lot 3, south half, for one year


02-315
 
- -2002
 
Grants franchise to the Coffee Company to operate and maintain a sidewalk
café on the right-of-way adjacent to the south four feet of Lot 2 and the
north one-third of Lot 3, south half, for three years


02-322
 
10-22-2002
 
Grants franchise to Joe Dooley the right to construct and maintain a private
hangar on Hutchinson City Airport property


02-330
 
1-14-2003
 
Grants franchise to Joe Dooley to include private hanger lease


02-332
 
2-11-2003
 
Grants franchise to Citizens Bank and Trust Company the right to encroach in
public right-of-way on 1st Avenue SW, west of Main Street


03-343
 
5-27-2003
 
Grants franchise to Sonora’s Mexican Restaurant the right to provide a
sidewalk café over and above certain property located in public right-of-way
on 2nd Avenue


03-348
 
7-23-2003
 
Grants franchise to Hutchinson Area United Way the right to erect a sign on
public property


03-349
 
8-12-2003
 
Grants franchise to Nook and Cranny the right to put outdoor display over and
above certain property located in public right-of-way on 34 Main Street North


03-353
 
8-26-2003
 
Authorizing the establishment of Special Service District No. 1


03-364
 
1-2-2004
 
Grants franchise to Birchwood/Connect Care the right to place an outdoor
thermometer sign over and above certain property located in public
right-of-way at Legion Park


04-374
 
5-25-2004
 
Grants franchise to American Payment Centers the right to place a payment
center over and above certain property located on public property at 111
Hassan Street SE


04-388
 
11-23-2004
 
Grants franchise to Raymond and Lucille Krueger the right to erect a fence on
public property


04-391
 
11-23-2004
 
Grants franchise to Hutchinson school district the right to maintain a
driveway on public property


06-0428
 
3-14-2006
 
Grants franchise to Hutchinson Area Chamber of Commerce the right to place
banners on city-owned street light poles along Main Street/Hwy 15 from 1st
Avenue NE to Century Avenue and a one block portion of Washington Avenue West


06-0436
 
5-22-2006
 
Grants franchise to Hutchinson Area Chamber of Commerce the right to place
“event specific” banners on city-owned property located in Liberty
Square, 50 Main Street SE


09-0531
 
8-11-2009
 
Grants franchise to American Payment Centers the right to continue the
placement of a payment center over and above certain property located on
public property at 111 Hassan Street SE


09-0537
 
12-22-2009
 
Grants franchise to United Way of McLeod County to permit a thermometer sign
on city property at Library Square, 50 Hassan Street SE


10-0549
 
6-8-2010
 
Grants franchise to Skip Quade to affix a wall mural at 140 Main Street North


10-0550
 
7-13-2010
 
Grants franchise to Cheryl Dooley, Hometown Realty, to place a flag pole on
city property at 130 Washington Avenue East


11-0664
 
1-11-2011
 
Grants franchise to United Way of McLeod County to permit a thermometer sign
on city property at Library Square, 50 Hassan Street SE


11-0669
 
6-14-2011
 
Grants franchise to Las Palmas Mexican Restaurant to provide a sidewalk café
over and above certain property located in public right-of-way on 2nd Avenue


13-0711
 
6-25-2013
 
Grants franchise to George W. Quast to place flower planters over and above
certain property located on public property located at 25 2nd Avenue SE


13-0713
 
8-13-2013
 
Grants franchise to Midwest Wireless Communications, LLC, to place a
generator over and above property located at the South Park Water Tower, 200
2nd Avenue SW


14-726
 
5-27-2014
 
Grants franchise to Hutchinson Area Chamber of Commerce, CVB to place event
specific banners on city owned park property for Music in the Park, Dairy
Days, and Arts and Crafts Festival


14-727
 
5-27-2014
 
Grants franchise to Hutchinson Area Chamber of Commerce, CVB to place banners
on city owned light poles along Main Street Hwy 15 from 1st Ave. N.E. to
Century Avenue and a one block portion of Washington Avenue West


15-0739
 
5-5-2015
 
Grants franchise to Sonora’s Mexican Restaurant to operate and maintain a
sidewalk café on certain property described as abutting the south 2/3 of Lot
5, South Half of the city


15-0740
 
5-5-2015
 
Grants franchise to Below Zero Frozen Yogurt, LLC to operate and maintain a
sidewalk café for the purpose of placing tables and chairs on certain
property owned by the city and described as  Condo No 4 45 Liberty Square
Block-049 Unit 102


16-762
 
8-9-2016
 
Grants franchise to 1100 Highway 15 S, LLC providing the right to encroach on
Century Avenue, east of Highway No 15


 
 
 
 
 




 



TABLE IV: GRANTS OF EASEMENT



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description


702
 
11-13-1984
 
Grants easement to John Korngiebel, DuWayne Peterson, Ben Piehl and Chad
Piehl for purpose of ingress and egress to 45 Library Square and maintenance
of utility meters (Lot 3, Block 49, north half) for a period of 40 years or
until change of use


704
 
11-27-1984
 
Grants easement to Hutchinson Utilities Commission to construct, erect,
operate and maintain underground utilities (Lot 3, Block 49, north half) for
a period of 40 years


91-47
 
11-12-1991
 
Vacates alley between Milwaukee Avenue and Division Avenue in Block 3,
Bonniwell’s First Addition, except for the center 18 feet of the alley;
provides a ten-year temporary easement over the west seven and one-half feet
of the alley


09-0534
 
10-27-2009
 
Vacates Glen Street lying southerly of the westerly prolongation of the north
line of Lot 9, Block 29, south half of Hutchinson, according to the recorded
plat thereof and lying north of the northerly right-of-way of Third Avenue
Southwest and theat part of Glen Street lying north of the westerly
prolongation of the north line of Lot 9, Block 29, south half of Hutchinson,
according to the recorded plat thereof, and lying south of the southerly
right-of-way of Second Avenue SW


13-0709
 
6-11-2013
 
Vacates and releases easements over 32 Lynn Road SW


 
 
 
 
 



 



TABLE V: GRANTS OF CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description




576
 
4-12-1979
 
Amends the cable television franchise provisions and grants franchise to
North American Communications Corp., for a period of 15 years from and after
6-1-1974


693
 
7-24-1984
 
Amends Ord. 576 to, among other things, extend the duration of the franchise
to 6-1-1994


736
 
4-22-1986
 
Amends Ord. 576 as to rates and franchise fees


95-131
 
2-28-1995
 
Grants franchise to DD Cable Holdings, Inc., dba Midwest Cablevision, to
construct, operate and maintain a cable television system, for a period of 15
years from date of acceptance


00-283
 
9-11-2000
 
Grants franchise to Hutchinson Telephone Company to construct, operate and
maintain a cable television system, for a period of 15 years from date of
acceptance


10-0545
 
4-13-2010
 
Grants franchise to Mediacom Minnesota LLC to construct, operate and maintain
a cable television system in the city


15-747
 
9-22-2015
 
Grants franchise to New Ulm Telecom, Inc., to construct, operate, and
maintain a cable television system in the city


 
 
 
 
 




 



TABLE VI: SALE OF REAL ESTATE



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description




657
 
3-22-1983
 
Lots 9 and 10, Block 12, south half of city


678
 
12-27-1983
 
Lot 10, Block 13, south half


689
 
6-26-1984
 
Part of Lot 7, Block 1, Waller’s Subdivision (Guggemos)


690
 
6-26-1984
 
Part of Lot 7, Block 1, Waller’s Subdivision (Klima)


691
 
6-26-1984
 
Part of Lot 7, Block 1, Waller’s Subdivision (Janke)


711
 
2-26-1985
 
Lot 12, Block 3, Selchow-Jorgenson Subdivision


715
 
5-28-1985
 
Lot 11, Block 3, Selchow-Jorgenson Subdivision


725
 
11-26-1985
 
Part of Lots 16 and 18, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29


766
 
10-27-1987
 
Lot 8, Block 36, south half


90-28
 
10-9-1990
 
Part of Lots 9 and 14, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, 8-116-29; and part
of the former railroad right-of-way northeasterly of and adjacent to those
lots


91-36
 
7-23-1991
 
Part of Blocks 43, 44 and 45, and part of First Avenue NE, Second Avenue NE,
Hassan Street and Jefferson Street, all in the north half


92-64
 
10-27-1992
 
Part of Blocks 47 and 48 and part of Jefferson Street and Adams Street, all
in the north half


93-81
 
5-25-1993
 
Lot 10, Block 21, south half


93-86
 
6-8-1993
 
Part of Lot 1, Block 1 of the Industrial Corporation Plat lying northerly of
the northerly line of Hackberry Avenue and of vacated Hackberry Avenue


94-109
 
5-10-1994
 
South 56 feet of Lot 3 and north ten feet of Lot 4, Block 51, north half
(vacant lot located at 26 Franklin Street N)


94-117
 
9-13-1994
 
Lots 6 - 10, Block 31, south half; and part of vacated Glen Street and
vacated Third Avenue


95-152
 
6-27-1995
 
Lot 8, Block 1, First Addition, Industrial District


95-158
 
9-12-1995
 
Lot 7, Block 1, First Addition, Industrial District


96-166
 
4-9-1996
 
Lot 4, Block 1, Second Addition, Industrial District


96-171
 
9-10-1996
 
Lot 9, Block 1, First Addition to Industrial District


97-193
 
4-22-1997
 
Lot 2, Block 1, Second Addition, Industrial District


98-243
 
12-8-1998
 
Lot 5, Block 1, Swanson’s Subdivision, Industrial District


99-262
 
7-27-1999
 
Certain assets and equipment, contracts and trade names associated thereto,
to Ridgeview Chanhassen Clinic


00-270
 
4-25-2000
 
Lot 6, Block 1, Swanson’s Subdivision, Industrial District


00-278
 
5-9-2000
 
Part of Lot 1, Auditor’s Plat of west half, 5-116-29, except the south 17
feet thereof


01-292
 
5-22-2001
 
Part of Lot 5, Block 1, south half


02-328
 
1-2-2003
 
South 600 feet of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter, Section 12,
Township 31, north of Range 23, west of the Fourth Principal Meridian


03-344
 
6-24-2003
 
964 Jefferson Street SE


03-350
 
7-22-2003
 
Marvin Hackbarth, et al., Section 5, Hassan Valley Township


04-376
 
6-8-2004
 
Lot 3, Block 49, north half of city


04-387
 
9-14-2004
 
Part of Lots 1 through 8 in Block 21, north half of the city


05-401
 
4-12-2005
 
Conveying part of Lots 1 through 8 in Block 21, north half of city to the
Southwest Minnesota Foundation


05-0408
 
6-14-2005
 
Sale of Lot 2, Block 1, Addition 57 to Todd Malenke, Midwest Tae Kwon Do


05-0425
 
1-10-2006
 
Conveying part of Lot 11, Block 14 to the Minnesota Department of
Transportation


05-0428
 
1-10-2006
 
Conveying part of Lots 7, 8 and 9, Block 20; Lot 1, Block 30; Lots 5, 6, 7, 8
and 9, Block 31; and Lots 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, Block 32 to the State Department
of Transportation


07-0486
 
12-11-2007
 
Authorizing the sale of the east 135 feet of Lot 5, Block 2, Goebel’s
Addition to Cenex


08-0502
 
5-27-2008
 
Authorizing the sale of Lot 15 of Block 7 and the south 40 feet of Lot 16,
Village of Dassel to Shane M. Colberg


08-0512
 
10-14-2008
 
Conveying certain municipally-owned property to the county


09-0535
 
10-27-2009
 
Authorizing the transfer of Lot 1, Block 3, Energy Park North and Outlot
“A”, Energy Park North to Warrior Manufacturing, Inc.


09-0525
 
4-14-2009
 
Conveying a part of the southeast corner of Section 7, Township 116, Range 29
to Hutchinson Health Care


10-0542
 
3-9-2010
 
Conveying Lot 15 of Block 7, and the south 40 feet of Lot 16, City of Dassel,
County of Meeker to Hutchinson Health Care


10-0553
 
8-24-2010
 
Conveying Lot 4, Block 2, Energy Park North Second Addition to Chips Holding
Company, LLC


10-0662
 
11-23-2010
 
Authorizing the sale of approximately 3.18 acres of industrial park land (Lot
1, Block 4, Energy Park North 2nd Addition) to Silver Lake Capital Partners,
LLC


11-0678
 
9-13-2011
 
Conveying part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
36, Township 117 North, Range 30 West to Gustav C. and Elizabeth A. Wurdell


12-0682
 
1-24-2012
 
Authorizing sale of the north half of Lot 1 and Lot 2, Townsite of
Hutchinson, north half, to Vet Visions, LLC


12-0697
 
11-13-2012
 
Conveying four parcels containing portions of Lots 12 and 13 in the south
half of Section 30 and the north half of Section 31, Township 117, Range 29,
to Hutchinson Health Care


16-752
 
2-9-2016
 
Authorizing the sale of that part of vacated Fifth Avenue Northeast, formerly
Second Street, lying northeasterly of and adjoining northeasterly line of Lot
1, Block 15, north half, to Mach 1 Properties, LLC


16-753
 
2-23-2016
 
Authorizing the sale of parts of Tracts A, B, C, D and E, together with part
of Tract F, to Titanium Partners, LLC


16-766
 
12-13-2016
 
Authorizing the sale of that part of Jefferson Street described as the
northeast corner of Block 7, Townsite of Hutchinson south half, to Dame’s
Digs, LLC


17-774
 
6-27-2017
 
Authorizing the sale of property described as the Southerly 10.00 feet of the
Northerly 209.50 feet of Lot 12, Block 13, north half, to Eric Wangen


17-775
 
6-27-2017
 
Authorizing the sale of property described as the north 46.3 feet of Lot 1,
Block 27, south half to MidCountry Bank


17-779
 
10-24-2017
 
Authorizing the sale of Lot 12, Block 13, north half, with exceptions, to
Titanium Partners, LLC


 
 
 
 
 




 



TABLE VII: STREET, ALLEY AND EASEMENT VACATIONS



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description




313
 
6-24-1968
 
Portions of River Street and Fourth Avenue SE


318
 
9-9-1968
 
Portion of alley in Block 14, south half


341
 
7-14-1969
 
West Highland Park Drive and portion of Hackberry Avenue


348
 
8-25-1969
 
Portion of First Avenue NW


376
 
8-24-1970
 
Part of alley in Block 39, south half


393
 
3-22-1971
 
Alley and street abutting Lots 1, 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10, Block 43, north half


405
 
9-27-1971
 
Portion of Ontario Street


419
 
5-23-1972
 
Portion of Third Avenue SW


421
 
6-13-1972
 
Portion of East Highland Park Drive


423
 
6-13-1972
 
Portion of Glen Street


425
 
7-25-1972
 
Portion of Echo Drive


427
 
8-8-1972
 
Portion of Hayden Avenue


435
 
2-13-1973
 
Portion of Glen Street North


439
 
4-10-1973
 
Portion of Goebel Street North


442
 
6-12-1973
 
Alley in Bonniwell’s First Addition


473
 
6-10-1975
 
Keith Street in Loren’s First Addition


488
 
10-14-1975
 
Easement: Lot 1, Block 1, Lakewood Terrace


489
 
10-14-1975
 
Easement: Lots 6 and 7, Block 3, Sioux Second Addition


492
 
1-13-1976
 
Custer Street


501
 
3-9-1976
 
Portion of Superior Street


505
 
4-13-1976
 
Easement: Lots 3 and 4, Stoney Point Addition


512
 
9-14-1976
 
Portions of Fourth Avenue SE and Superior Street


515
 
9-28-1976
 
Portion of Hackberry Avenue


517
 
10-12-1976
 
Alley in Block 40, Christensen’s Subdivision


528
 
4-12-1977
 
Easement: Lots 1 through 10, Block 1, Stoney Point Addition


563
 
4-11-1978
 
Utility, drainage and street easements: Stoney Point Second Addition


565
 
5-9-1978
 
Utility and drainage easements: Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Albert’s First
Addition


575
 
2-13-1979
 
Utility easements and roadways: Lots 12 through 19, Block 1, and Lots 1
through 11, Block 2, Rolling Oaks Lane and Service Drive, Rolling Oaks Third
Addition


606
 
9-9-1980
 
Alley in Block 15, south half


619
 
5-12-1981
 
Park Lane in Block 2, Helland’s Fourth Addition


620
 
5-12-1981
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Helland’s Fourth
Addition, and Lot 5, Block 3, Helland’s Third Addition


627
 
7-28-1981
 
Alley in Block 52, south half


631
 
9-8-1981
 
Portion of Kouwe Street


674
 
10-11-1983
 
Utility and drainage easements: Lots 10 and 11, Block 2, Rolling Oaks Fourth
Addition


677
 
11-8-1983
 
Sidelot easement: Green’s View Addition


694
 
8-14-1984
 
Portion of Hassan Street


710
 
2-12-1985
 
Park Lane


722
 
9-10-1985
 
Utility easement: Lot 2, Block 2, Helland’s Third Addition


723
 
9-10-1985
 
Washington Street right-of-way


743
 
7-8-1986
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lot 2, Block 1, California Second Addition


745
 
8-12-1986
 
Utility and drainage easements: Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 2, Orchard Park First
Addition


783
 
7-12-1988
 
Alley in Block 1, College Addition


784
 
7-12-1988
 
Utility easements: Lots 1, 2 and 3, Tenpart Addition


793
 
11-7-1988
 
Two-foot strip of Monroe Street; Lot 9, Block 4, south half


89-03
 
6-13-1989
 
Utility easement: south six feet of the east 119 feet of the west 125 feet of
Lot 1, Block 1, Casa Addition


89-08
 
9-12-1989
 
Portion of Carolina Avenue, Helland’s Sixth Addition


90-16
 
1-23-1990
 
Amends Ord. 793, vacating a two-foot strip of Monroe Street


91-36
 
7-23-1991
 
Second Avenue NE in the north half, between Main Street and the west line of
Jefferson Street, except utility, drainage and access easements are retained;
Hassan Street in the north half, between Second Avenue NE and First Avenue
NE, except utility, drainage and access easements; Jefferson Street in the
north half, between the Crow River and First Avenue NE, except the E 50 feet
thereof as easement for utility, drainage and roadway right-of-way; alley in
Block 43 of the north half, between Second Avenue NE and First Avenue NE;
alley in Block 44 of the north half, between Second Avenue NE and First
Avenue NE; the north seven and one-half feet of First Avenue NE between
Hassan Street and a point 108.77 feet east of the SW corner of Lot 3, Block
45, north half


91-39
 
9-10-1991
 
Portion of Wagner Street, Wagner Development Corporation Plat


91-40
 
9-10-1991
 
Utility and drainage easements: Lot 2, Block 3 and Lot 1, Block 4, Wagner
Development Corporation Plat


91-42
 
10-8-1991
 
Alley between Milwaukee Avenue and Division Avenue, Block 4, Bonniwell’s
First Addition, except the center 18 feet of the alley


91-43
 
10-8-1991
 
Utility easement: Lot 20, Block 1, Stoney Point Addition


91-47
 
11-12-1991
 
Alley between Milwaukee Avenue and Division Avenue, Block 3, Bonniwell’s
First Addition, except the center 18 feet of the alley; provides a ten-year
temporary easement over the west seven and one-half feet of the alley


91-48
 
11-12-1991
 
Ivy Lane between Sixth Avenue S and Seventh Avenue S; part of Bonniwell’s
Subdivision of Block 18 of Bonniwell’s Second Addition


91-49
 
11-26-1991
 
All streets, thoroughfares, alleys and easements in part of the southeast
quarter, 6-116-29, part of Blocks 62, 63, 64 and 65 in the south half, part
of Block 3 in Mortensen’s Addition, part of Lot C, Auditor’s Plat of
south half, 6-116-29, and parts of Erie Street, Huron Street, Ontario Street
and River Street in the south half


91-50
 
11-26-1991
 
Part of Washington Avenue and part of Hassan Street, north half


92-61
 
7-14-1992
 
All rights-of-way in Downtown Redevelopment Plat No. 2


92-65
 
8-25-1992
 
Utility easement: Hutchinson Mall Plat 2


92-68
 
10-13-1992
 
Utility easement: south line of Lot 1 and N line of Lot 2, Block 1, Casa
Addition


92-72
 
11-10-1992
 
Utility easement: part of lot line between Lots 5 and 6, Block 1, First
Addition to Industrial District


93-83
 
6-8-1993
 
Street and easements abutting Lots 1 through 6, Block 3, and Lots 1 through
5, Block 4, all in Schmidtbauer’s Fourth Addition


93-92
 
10-12-1993
 
Utility easements: Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Walnut Ridge Estates


94-98
 
1-11-1994
 
Lots 1 through 5, Block 1, Walnut Ridge Estates


94-107
 
4-12-1994
 
Utility easement: east line of Outlot B, Wagner Development Corporation Plat


94-115
 
7-12-1994
 
East half of Glen Street between Third Avenue SW and Fourth Avenue SW, and
south portion of Third Avenue SW from the alley west to Glen Street


94-116
 
8-9-1994
 
Utility easements: in Broll’s First Addition (part of Lots 1 and 2, Block
6, Schmidtbauer’s Fourth Addition; part of Lot 2, Block 1, Village
Cooperative; and part of Lots 2 and 3, Block 2, Orchard Park First Addition)


94-123
 
11-7-1994
 
Utility and drainage easements: property line between Lots 6 and 7 and Lots 7
and 8, Block 3, Island View Heights


94-124
 
11-7-1994
 
Utility and drainage easement: part of Lot 12, Auditor’s Plat, north half,
31-117-29


94-128
 
12-27-1994
 
Amends Ord. 94-115, vacating part of Glen Street and Third Avenue SW


94-128
 
2-17-1995
 
Revised Ord. 94-128 to record new name of area, Prince of Peace Addition


95-154
 
7-11-1995
 
Utility easement: part of Lot 5, Block 1, Larson Subdivision


96-175
 
9-10-1996
 
Alley easement: along Lot 5 in Mortenson’s Addition and Lots 3 and 4 in
Park Subdivision


96-176
 
9-10-1996
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 2 and 3, Block 1, Helland’s Addition


96-179
 
10-8-1996
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 8 and 9, Block 1, First Addition to
Industrial District


97-190
 
4-8-1997
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 1 and 2, Block 2 and Outlot B, Island
View Heights First Addition


97-199
 
7-8-1997
 
Utility and drainage easement: between Lots 14 and 15, Block 1, Stoney Point
Addition


97-202
 
8-12-1997
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lot 1, Block 1, Campbell Lake Addition


97-214
 
12-9-1997
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lot 1, Block 1, Downtown Redevelopment Plat,
except the west ten feet thereof


98-218
 
3-10-1998
 
Easements: a six-foot wide strip in Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 1, Tenpart Addition


98-222
 
5-12-1998
 
Utility and drainage easement: between Lots 1 and 2 and Lots 1 and 6, Block
2, Paden’s Addition; a private easement agreement shall be maintained for
electrical service between Lots 1 and 2


98-232
 
8-11-1998
 
Water main easement: part of Lot 1, Block 1, Century Court


98-236
 
9-8-1998
 
Utility and drainage easement: between Lots 8 and 9, Block 1, Island View
Heights Second Addition


98-238
 
10-13-1998
 
Utility and drainage easement: between Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Sorenson
Addition


98-239
 
10-13-1998
 
Utility and drainage easement: part of Outlot B, Island View Heights Second
Addition


98-240
 
10-13-1998
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, V. and H. Jorgenson
Subdivision, and part of east half of the southeast quarter, 12-116-30


99-246
 
2-9-1999
 
Utility and drainage easement: between Lots 4 and 5, Block 1, Swanson’s
Subdivision, Industrial District; except the east ten feet of each lot


99-250
 
4-13-1999
 
Easement: part of Lot 1, Block 1, Industrial Corporation Plat, north of
vacated Hackberry Avenue


99-254
 
6-8-1999
 
Utility and drainage easement: part of the easement on Lot 3, Block 1, as
dedicated on the plat of County Fair Marketplace


99-256
 
6-8-1999
 
Huron Street adjacent to Lots 1 through 5, Block 18, and Lot 15 Block 2,
south half; except for an easement ten feet on either side of the centerline
of that street


99-257
 
6-8-1999
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lot 1, Block 4, Walnut Ridge Estates


99-263
 
8-10-1999
 
Right-of-way south of Lot 6, Block 1, Stucke’s First Addition


00-273
 
5-23-2000
 
Portion of Boston Street and Baltimore Avenue in Paden First Addition; all
utility and drainage easements in Lot 1, Block 3 and Lots 3 and 4, Block 2,
Paden First Addition, and in Lots 1 and 3, Block 1, Wal-Mart Subdivision


00-277
 
6-27-2000
 
Utility and drainage easements: Outlot A, Island View Heights Second Addition


00-279
 
7-11-2000
 
Utility and drainage easement: part of easement in Lot 5, Block 2, Island
View Heights Second Addition; new easements shall be established in Outlot A,
Island View Heights Fourth Addition


00-282
 
9-11-2000
 
Utility and drainage easement: Broll’s Third Addition; new easements will
be dedicated in the rearrangement as recorded in the final plat


01-302
 
10-9-2001
 
Perimeter easements: Lots 3 through 6, Block 3, Walnut Ridge Estates; new
easements will be dedicated in Walnut Ridge Estates Plat 3


02-318
 
6-11-2002
 
Reaffirming vacation of part of Washington Avenue, east of the south fork of
the Crow River


02-319
 
7-9-2002
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 3, Helland’s Seventh
Addition; replatting the property


02-320
 
9-24-2002
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 8 and 9, Block 1, Island View Heights
Second Addition; constructing a house across the property


03-331
 
2-11-2003
 
Utility and drainage easement: Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Olsons’ Addition;
constructing a parking lot across the property line


03-345
 
7-8-2003
 
Utility and drainage easement: southerly property line of Lot 10, Block 2,
First Addition to Ravenwood; constructing a window sill three feet into the
present easement area


03-346
 
7-8-2003
 
Utility and drainage easement: easterly property line of Lot 3, Block 1,
Fourth Addition to Lakewood Terrace; constructing a detached garage


03-362
 
12-10-2003
 
Utility and drainage easement: Island View Heights Fourth Addition; replatting


03-363
 
12-10-2003
 
Right-of-way known as Parcel No. 2 of city street right-of-way Plat No. 5


04-377
 
6-8-2004
 
Vacating Louisiana Street and utility and drainage easements located in Huski
addition for redevelopment


04-385
 
8-24-2004
 
Vacating Blackhawk Court and utility and drainage easements in Lots 1 through
9, Block 1, located in Welcome to Our Home Addition


04-395
 
12-14-2004
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements between Lots 20 and 21, Block 1,
Fairway Estates Second Addition submitted by Marty Berg and Mike McGraw


05-402
 
4-12-2005
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements in Lots 1 through 6 and lots 13
through 20, Block 2, Block 4 and Block 5, Southfork Ridge


05-0405
 
5-10-2005
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements in Lot 12, Block 3 Island View
Heights First Addition


05-04-07
 
6-14-2005
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements in Summerset Third Addition


06-0435
 
5-9-2006
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements in Jensen Addition


06-0444
 
9-13-2006
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements along the property line between 705
and 715 Park Island Drive SW


06-0445
 
10-16-2006
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements along the property line between Lots
4 and 5, Block 1, Fairway Estates Second Addition


06-0446
 
11-14-2006
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements located on the south line of Lot 14,
Rice Addition, 630 Dale Street SW


06-0448
 
12-12-2006
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements located on the south line of Lot 4,
Block 1, Hansons Subdivision of Peterson Estates, 320 Jefferson Court SE


07-0454
 
2-13-2007
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements in Lot 1, Block 2, Fraser’s
Subdivision


07-0455
 
2-13-2007
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements in Southfork Ridge Third Addition


07-0461
 
6-26-2007
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements between Lots 20 and 21, Block 1,
Stoney Point Addition


07-0472
 
9-11-2007
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements between Lots 2 and 3, Block 2,
Goebel’s Addition


07-0478
 
10-9-2007
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements between Lots 1 and 2, Block 4,
Southwind


07-0480
 
11-13-2007
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements located between Lots 4 and 5, Block
2, Goebel’s Addition


07-0481
 
11-13-2007
 
Vacating a portion of the utility and drainage easements located in Lot 2,
Block 2, Hutchinson Fifth Avenue Industrial Park


08-0506
 
7-8-2008
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements located in Kottke Court


08-0518
 
12-9-2008
 
Vacating all of the alley in Block 33


09-0533
 
9-8-2009
 
Vacating a portion of Glen Street SW


12-0693
 
9-11-2012
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements lying northerly of and adjoining the
south line of Lot 2, Block 1, and lying southerly of and adjoining the north
line of Lot 3, Block 1, Montreal Place


12-0694
 
9-11-2012
 
Vacating utility and drainage easements lying southwesterly of and adjoining
the northeasterly line of Lot 20, Block 1, and lying westerly of and
adjoining the easterly line, all in Lot 21, Block 1, Stoney Point Addition


13-0707
 
5-14-2013
 
Vacating roadway and utility easements located along the south lines of Lots
1, 2 and 3, Block 1


13-0709
 
6-11-2013
 
Vacating and releasing easements over 32 Lynn Road SW


16-0768
 
1-10-2017
 
Vacating drainage and utility easements located in Island View Heights, Sixth
Addition


 
 
 
 
 




 



TABLE VIII: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description




469
 
5-13-1975
 
-


491
 
12-9-1975
 
-


495
 
1-27-1976
 
-


496
 
2-10-1976
 
-


514
 
9-28-1976
 
-


516
 
10-12-1976
 
-


522
 
12-28-1976
 
-


523
 
3-8-1977
 
-


524
 
3-8-1977
 
-


525
 
3-8-1977
 
-


531
 
7-12-1977
 
-


537
 
7-12-1977
 
-


539
 
8-9-1977
 
-


547
 
9-13-1977
 
-


550
 
10-11-1977
 
-


556
 
1-10-1978
 
-


562
 
4-11-1978
 
-


564
 
5-9-1978
 
-


568
 
8-8-1978
 
-


571
 
12-26-1978
 
-


573
 
1-9-1979
 
-


574
 
2-13-1979
 
-


590
 
1-8-1980
 
-


592
 
2-12-1980
 
-


593
 
2-12-1980
 
-


594
 
2-12-1980
 
-


595
 
4-8-1980
 
-


596
 
4-8-1980
 
-


597
 
4-8-1980
 
-


598
 
5-13-1980
 
-


600
 
6-10-1980
 
-


603
 
7-8-1980
 
-


611
 
12-9-1980
 
-


612
 
1-13-1981
 
-


613
 
1-13-1981
 
-


617
 
5-12-1981
 
-


618
 
5-12-1981
 
-


634
 
10-13-1981
 
-


640
 
11-10-1981
 
-


643
 
2-22-1982
 
-


645
 
5-11-1982
 
-


653
 
12-14-1982
 
-


661
 
4-12-1983
 
-


664
 
5-10-1983
 
-


665
 
6-14-1983
 
-


676
 
11-8-1983
 
-


700
 
10-9-1984
 
-


717
 
7-9-1985
 
-


718
 
7-9-1985
 
-


726
 
12-10-1985
 
-


733
 
3-11-1986
 
-


738
 
6-10-1986
 
-


747
 
9-9-1986
 
-


750
 
10-14-1986
 
-


754
 
12-9-1986
 
-


758
 
7-14-1987
 
-


762
 
9-22-1987
 
-


775
 
4-12-1988
 
-


778
 
6-14-1988
 
-


779
 
6-14-1988
 
-


790
 
10-11-1988
 
-


795
 
12-13-1988
 
-


796
 
12-13-1988
 
-


89-02
 
6-13-1989
 
Rezones Lot 1, Block 1, Casa Addition and Lots 1 and 2, Block of Rolling Oaks
Second Addition, from R-3 to C-4


8904
 
8-8-1989
 
Rezones Lots 2 through 5, Block 33, south half, from R-2 to C-3


8905
 
8-8-1989
 
Rezones Lot 12, except the south half, Block 10, north half, and the south
198 feet of Lot 6, Block 11, north half, from R-5 to R-2


89-07
 
10-31-1989
 
Rezones part of Lot 12, Block 12, north half, from R-2 to C-2


91-30
 
2-12-1991
 
Rezones the south half of the southeast quarter of northeast quarter,
12-116-30, except the right-of-way for State Trunk Highway 15, from R-2 to C-4


91-32
 
4-9-1991
 
Rezones Lots 3 and 4, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 32-117-29, from R-2
to I-1


91-33
 
5-14-1991
 
Rezones Lots 1 through 17, Block 7, Helland’s Sixth Addition, from R-3 to
R-2


91-37
 
8-13-1991
 
Rezones portions of Lot 12, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, Section 32;
Lot 1, Block 3, north half; and Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 15, north half; from
R-2 to C-4


91-38
 
8-13-1991
 
Rezones part of Blocks 43, 44 and 45, and part of First Avenue NE, Second
Avenue NE, Hassan Street and Jefferson Street, all in the North Half, from
I-C1 to C-3


91-41
 
10-8-1991
 
Rezones Lots 1 through 10, Block 1, and Lots 1 through 7, Block 2, all in
Schmidtbauer’s Fourth Addition, from R-2 to R-1


91-46
 
11-12-1991
 
Rezones Lot 8, Block 2, Cedar Acres Subdivision, from R-3 to C-4


92-60
 
7-14-1992
 
Rezones Lots 1 through 5, 9 and 10, Block 47 (including the alley between
First Avenue and Washington Street, to be vacated), part of Adams Street,
north half, and Block 45 including First Avenue NE and the adjacent west half
of the Adams Street right-of-way, from I/C to C-3


92-62
 
8-11-1992
 
Rezones part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, and west half
of the southeast quarter, all in 12-116-30, from R-1 to I/C


92-69
 
11-10-1992
 
Rezones Lot 2, Block 16, south half


92-71
 
11-10-1992
 
Rezones Lots 3 through 11, Block 1, First Addition to Industrial District,
and part of Lot 5, Block 2 and Lots 2 and 3, Block 3, south of Industrial
Boulevard, Industrial District Plat, and Lot 14, Auditor’s Plat, west half,
from I-1 to I-2


93-74
 
2-9-1993
 
Rezones part of Lot 6, Auditor’s Plat, west half, 32-117-29, from R-1 to I-1


93-77
 
4-13-1993
 
Rezones Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Twin Oaks Addition, from R-3 to R-4


93-84
 
6-8-1993
 
Rezones Lot 1, Block 1, Village Cooperative, from R-3 to R-4


93-85
 
6-8-1993
 
Rezones Lot 1, Block 1, and Lot 3, Block 2, Santelman’s Addition, except
Santelman’s Second Addition, from R-3 to PDD


93-88
 
7-13-1993
 
Rezones part of Lot 7, Auditor’s Plat, south half of Section 30 and the
north half of Section 31, 117-29, from R-2 to R-4


93-89
 
7-13-1993
 
Rezones Block 21, south half, from R-3 to I/C


93-93
 
10-12-1993
 
Rezones part of south half of the southeast quarter of southwest quarter,
1-116-30, from R-2 to R-3


94-97
 
1-11-1994
 
Rezones Lot 6, Auditor’s Plat, west half, 32-117-29, from R-1 to C-4


94-99
 
2-8-1994
 
Rezones part of south half of the northeast quarter and part of the north
half of the southeast quarter, 2-116-30, from R-5 to R-3


94-100
 
2-8-1994
 
Rezones parts of Auditor’s Plat, 7-116-29, Lot 1, from R-1 to I-1


94-111
 
6-14-1994
 
Rezones Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 51, north half, from C-3 to R-2


94-114
 
7-12-1994
 
Rezones Lots 6 through 10, Block 31, and Lots 6 through 10, Block 29, south
half, from R-3 to R-4; rezones Lot 1, Block 31, south half, from R-3 to R-2


94-118
 
9-13-1994
 
Rezones parts of Lots 11, 12 and 15, south half, 6-116-29, from R-2 to I/C


94-127
 
12-12-1994
 
Rezones part of the west half of the southeast quarter, 32-117-29, along
Highway 7 East, from R-1 to C-4


95-137
 
3-28-1995
 
Rezones Lot 2, Auditor’s Plat, Section 7, and part of NW quarter, Section
8, both in 116-29, from C-2 and R-2 to I-2


95-138
 
3-28-1995
 
Rezones part of Lot 18, Auditor’s Plat, south half, 6-116-29, from R-2 to
I/C


95-139
 
3-28-1995
 
Rezones part of Lots 3 through 6, Block 16, north half, and part of the
southwest quarter of the southwest quarter, 32-117-29, from R-3 to R-4


95-143
 
4-11-1995
 
Rezones the west half of the south 614.54 feet of the southeast quarter of
the southeast quarter, Section 30, and the north half, Section 31, both in
117-29, and Lots 1 through 6, Block 1, Boyle’s Addition, from R-3 to R-4


95-159
 
10-24-1995
 
Rezones parts of Lots 1 through 6, Block 1, California Second Addition, and
the west half of County Road 25 south of Lot 9, Auditor’s Plat of Lot 15 of
Auditor’s Plat, 7-116-29, and north of extended north line of Tract S in
Reg. Land Survey No. 1, from R-1 to R-2; rezones part of Lots 7 and 8, Block
3, California Addition, and part of Texas Avenue NW, all in Rolling Oaks
Second Addition, from R-1 to R-3; rezones part of the northeast quarter of
the northeast quarter, 36-117-30, from R-1 to R-5; rezones part of Lots 1, 2
and 3, Block 1, and part of Texas Avenue NW, all in Rolling Oaks Second
Addition, from R-1 to C-4


95-163
 
1-9-1996
 
Rezones portions of Lots 9 through 13 and 15, Auditor’s Plat, west half,
5-116-29, from R-1 to I-1


96-174
 
9-10-1996
 
Rezones part of Lot 18 of Auditor’s Plat, 7-116-29, from R-1 to C-4


96-178
 
10-8-1996
 
Rezones part of Lot 1, Block 2, Century Court Addition, from R-3 to PDD


97-191
 
4-8-1997
 
Rezones Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, and Outlot B, Island View Heights First
Addition, from R-1 to R-1/R-2 PDD, known as Island View Heights Second
Addition


97-198
 
7-8-1997
 
Rezones part of Tract C of Reg. Land Survey No. 28, from R-1 to R-3


97-206
 
9-9-1997
 
Rezones part of Lots 11 and 12, Block 13, north half, from C-2 and R-2 to R-3


97-207
 
9-9-1997
 
Rezones part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter, 36-117-30,
from C-4 to I/C


97-209
 
10-14-1997
 
Rezones parts of the west half of the northeast quarter, 36-117-30, north of
the centerline of Golf Course Road NW, from R-1 to R-2


97-210
 
10-14-1997
 
Rezones parts of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter, 36-117-30,
from C-4 to I/C


97-212
 
11-10-1997
 
Rezones part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter, 32-117-29,
from C-4 to C-2


98-227
 
6-9-1998
 
Rezones Lots 1 through 15, Block 1, Broll’s Second Addition, from R-1 to R-3


98-228
 
6-9-1998
 
Rezones part of the southwest quarter, 36-117-30, from C-4 to C-2


98-231
 
8-11-1998
 
Rezones part of the south half of the northwest quarter, 12-116-30, from R-1
to Mixed Zoning for Single- and Multi-Family and Commercial


98-233
 
8-11-1998
 
Rezones the east half of the southeast quarter, 12-116-30, north of the
northerly right-of-way of County State Aid Highway No. 8, from
Residential/Agriculture to C-4 Commercial


98-244
 
12-8-1998
 
Rezones the east half of the southwest quarter, Sec. 12, part of the
southwest quarter of the southeast quarter, Section 12, part of the northeast
quarter, Section 13, part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter,
Section 13, and part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter,
Section 13, all in 116-30, from R-1 to I/C


99-248
 
3-2-1999
 
Rezones part of the southwest quarter, 25-117-30, from R-1 to PDD R-1


99-252
 
5-11-1999
 
Rezones part of the east half of the northeast quarter of the northwest
quarter, 12-116-30, from R-1 to R-4


99-255
 
6-8-1999
 
Rezones Lots 1 through 9, Welcome to Our Home Addition, from R-1 to PDD R-1,
and from R-4 to PDD R-4


99-259
 
7-13-1999
 
Rezones part of the southeast quarter, 31-117-29, from C-4 and R-2 to I/C


99-260
 
7-13-1999
 
Rezones certain land from R-1 to R-3


99-265
 
11-9-1999
 
Rezones part of Lots 9 and 14, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, 8-116-29,
and the former railroad right-of-way adjoining Lot 14, and the part of the
northwest quarter of the northeast quarter, 17-116-29, north of the Crow
River, from R-2 to I-2 and I/C


00-267
 
2-8-2000
 
Rezones part of the south half, 2-116-30, from R-1 to R-2


00-268
 
3-14-2000
 
Rezones part of the north half of the northeast quarter, Section 13, and part
of the east half of the southeast quarter, Section 12, both in 116-30, from
R-1 to I/C


00-274
 
6-12-2000
 
Rezones part of Lots 20 and 21, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29, from R-1 to C-4


00-275
 
6-12-2000
 
Rezones part of Tract C in Reg. Land Survey No. 28, from R-1 to R-2 and R-3


00-276
 
6-12-2000
 
Rezones Lot 1, Block 16, south half, from I/C to R-2


00-287
 
12-12-2000
 
Rezones part of Lot 73, Lynn Addition, from I to R-2


02-305
 
2-12-2002
 
Rezones Lot 1, Block 2, Ravenwood, from R-4 to R-3


02-306
 
2-12-2002
 
Rezones part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter, 36-117-30,
from R-1 to I/C


02-314
 
5-28-2002
 
Rezones Lot 1, Block 2, Ravenwood, from R-3 to PDD No. 02-01


02-324
 
11-12-2002
 
Rezones east 361.50 feet of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter,
Section 11, Township 116, Range 30, from R1 to C2


02-329
 
1-14-2003
 
Rezones Lot 1, Block 1, Stearns Woods, from R1 to R2


02-333
 
3-11-2003
 
Rezones property 778.6 feet north of the south line of Section 7, Township
116, Range 29 and 1376.2 feet east of the west line of the east half of the
southwest quarter of Section 7, from R1 to R2


02-339
 
6-10-2003
 
Rezones Outlot A, Ravenwood, from C2 to R2


03-355
 
9-9-2003
 
Rezones 222 5th Avenue NW, from R2 to C4


03-356
 
10-14-2003
 
Rezones PDD Rolling Meadows East from R1 to R3


03-367
 
2-10-2004
 
Rezones 1245 Roberts Road SW, from R1 to R2


04-371
 
4-13-2004
 
Rezones PDD Southfork Ridge, from R1 to R3


04-373
 
4-13-2004
 
Rezones Wetherall property, from R1 to I-1


04-381
 
4-6-2005
 
Rezones property in Lakeridge from R1 to R4DD


04-382
 
8-10-2004
 
Rezones property in Welcome to Our Home Second Addition from R-1PDD to R-4PDD


04-383
 
7-13-2004
 
Rezones property in Kottke Court from R1 to R2PDD


04-386
 
9-14-2004
 
Rezones property in Summerset Addition from R3 to R2


04-390
 
11-9-2004
 
Rezones property for Farr Development from C-4 to R-4


04-396
 
12-14-2004
 
Rezones 1130 Hwy 7 East from C-4 to C-2


05-0404
 
5-10-2005
 
Rezones property in Park Meadows from R-4 to R-3


05-0406
 
6-14-2005
 
Rezones property in Summerset Third Addition from R-2 to R-3


05-0409
 
6-14-2005
 
Rezones property in Clouse Addition from R-1 to R-2


05-0419
 
11-8-2005
 
Rezones 997 Roberts Road SW from I-1 to R-S


05-0426
 
12-13-2005
 
Rezones 1325 Jefferson Street SE from R-1 to R-2


06-0427
 
2-14-2006
 
Rezones 535 and 545 4th Avenue SE from I/C to R-2


06-0429
 
3-14-2006
 
Rezones 225 Shady Ridge Road and 1285 Hwy 7 West from C-4 to R-2


07-0458
 
3-13-2007
 
Rezones 267 4th Ave. NW from R-2 to C-5


08-0490
 
1-8-2008
 
Rezones 897 Hwy 15 South from R-3 to C-4


08-0491
 
1-8-2008
 
Rezones Block 33, south half, from C-3 to R-2


08-0492
 
2-12-2008
 
Rezones 765 Railroad Street SE from R-1 to I-1


08-0513
 
11-12-2008
 
Rezones 1285 Hwy 7 West from R-2 to C-4


08-0519
 
12-9-2008
 
Rezones 720 Hwy 7 West from I/C and C-4 from I-1


09-0526
 
4-14-2009
 
Rezones a 68-acre property from R-1 to I-1


09-0527
 
4-14-2009
 
Rezones 900 Hwy 7 West from C-4 to I-1


10-0543
 
4-13-2010
 
Rezones Outlot B, Calaford Place from R-4 to MXD and Outlot C, Calaford Place
from C-4 to C-2


10-0547
 
5-11-2010
 
Rezones a 5.6-acre property from R-1 to I-1


10-0552
 
8-10-2010
 
Rezones property at 502 Harrington Street SW from C-1 to R-2


10-0555
 
9-14-2010
 
Rezones property at 525 Golf Course Road NW from R-1 to R-2 and MXD


11-0665
 
1-11-2011
 
Rezones property at 1105 5th Avenue SW from R-1 to I-1


13-714
 
8-27-2013
 
Rezones property at Outlot B, Welcome to Our Home Addition, from R-1 to R-4


14-0732
 
9-9-2014
 
Rezone property at 875 Century Avenue S.W. from R-3 to R-4


16-756
 
4-12-2016
 
Rezone property at 13 4th Ave NE and 17 4th Ave NE from R-2 to C-2


16-760
 
6-14-2016
 
Rezone property at 1550 Sherwood Street SE from R-1 to R-2


 
 
 
 
 




 



TABLE IX: ANNEXATIONS



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Description




134
 
12-22-1947
 
Four parcels in Township 116 abutting Dascher’s Addition and Lynn Addition,
and Lot 75, Lynn Addition


163
 
11-10-1952
 
Parcel abutting Lot 50, Lynn Addition


174
 
5-10-1954
 
Portion of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter, 1-116-30


179
 
5-9-1955
 
Parcel in the northwest quarter, 1-116-30


188
 
2-27-1956
 
Part of Lot 16, Auditor’s Plat of part of the northwest quarter, 1-116-30


193
 
3-25-1957
 
Part of Lot 9, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, Section 30, and the north
half, 31-117-29


194
 
5-13-1957
 
Part of Lot 88, Lynn Addition


197
 
7-8-1957
 
Parcel abutting the northeast quarter, 7-116-29


199
 
8-12-1957
 
Lot 5, Auditor’s Plat of Lot 15, 7-116-29


201
 
9-9-1957
 
Portion of Old Trunk Highway No. 22


203
 
10-14-1957
 
Portion of Old Trunk Highway No. 22


205
 
10-28-1957
 
Lots 7 and 8, Auditor’s Plat of Lot 15, 7-116-29


207
 
11-25-1957
 
Portion of Old Trunk Highway No. 22


210
 
9-22-1958
 
Part of Lot 16, Auditor’s Plat of part of the northwest quarter, 1-116-30


211
 
9-22-1958
 
Parcel abutting Hillcrest Addition


214
 
1-26-1959
 
Part of Lot 3, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29


216
 
2-23-1959
 
Parcel in the northwest quarter, 31-117-29


221
 
10-27-1959
 
Lot 89, Lynn Addition


228
 
5-10-1960
 
Part of Lot 22, Lots 17, 18 and 23, and part of Lot 16 in the northwest
quarter, 1-116-30


229
 
5-31-1960
 
Parcel in and abutting the northwest quarter, 1-116-30


231
 
7-26-1960
 
Tract Y, 1-116-30


242
 
8-28-1961
 
Parcel in Auditor’s Plat of part of the northwest quarter, 1-116-30


243
 
2-26-1962
 
Northwest quarter of the southwest quarter, 1-116-30


244
 
2-12-1962
 
Parts of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Auditor’s Plat of Lot 15, 7-116-29


246
 
4-23-1962
 
Parcels in Lots 2 and 3, Auditor’s Plat of the northwest quarter, 1-116-30;
Lot 16, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-30; and the northeast quarter of the
northeast quarter, 7-116-30; Lot 2, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29; parts of
Lots 3 and 6, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, Section 30, and the north
half, 31-117-29; parcels in Lots 19 and 20, Auditor’s Plat of the northwest
quarter, 1-116-30; parcel in the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter,
7-116-30; parcels in the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter,
36-117-30; part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter, 1-116-30;
parcel in and abutting railroad right-of-way; parcels in the northwest
quarter of the northeast quarter and the northeast quarter of the northwest
quarter, 1-116-30


249
 
10-8-1962
 
E 286 feet of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of the southwest
quarter, 1-116-30


256
 
7-22-1963
 
Parcel in the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter, 36-117-30


257
 
10-14-1963
 
East 200 feet of Lot 4, Auditor’s Plat of part of the northwest quarter,
1-116-30


258
 
11-11-1963
 
Parcel abutting Lot 28, Lynn Addition


259
 
2-10-1964
 
Parcel abutting Lot 12, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, Section 30, and
the north half, Section 31, both in 117-29


261
 
5-11-1964
 
Part of Lot 90, Lynn Addition


262
 
5-11-1964
 
Part of Lot 90, Lynn Addition


268
 
1-25-1965
 
Parcel in Lot 7, Auditor’s Plat of the northeast quarter, 1-116-30, and
parcel in Lot 15, Auditor’s Plat of the northwest quarter, 1-116-30


269
 
1-25-1965
 
Parcel in the northeast quarter, 13-116-30, and parcel in the northeast
quarter of the southeast quarter, 13-116-30


278
 
5-23-1966
 
Parcel in the southeast quarter, 1-116-30, and part of Lot 94, Lynn Addition


279
 
5-23-1966
 
Lots 74 and 74-1/2, Lynn Addition


280
 
6-13-1966
 
Lots 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 5-116-29


289
 
7-24-1967
 
Parcels in Tract M, and Tracts E and D, Reg. Land Survey No. 1; parcel in Lot
92, Lynn Addition; and part of the northeast quarter of the northwest
quarter, 1-116-30


290
 
7-24-1967
 
Parcel in the southwest quarter and the south half of the northwest quarter,
36-117-30, and parcels in the southwest quarter, 36-117-30


294
 
12-11-1967
 
Parcel in the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of the southwest
quarter, 1-116-30


295
 
12-11-1967
 
Part of the south half and the southwest quarter, 36-117-30


306
 
4-22-1968
 
Part of the southwest quarter, 36-117-30


307
 
4-22-1968
 
Part of Government Lot 4, 35-117-30, and parcel in 36-117-30


311
 
5-27-1968
 
Part of Lots 16 and 18, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29


316
 
8-26-1968
 
Part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of the southwest
quarter, 1-116-30


325
 
10-28-1968
 
Parcels in Ahrens Highland Park Subdivision


327
 
11-25-1968
 
Part of south 75 feet of Lot 11, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 32-117-29


335
 
4-14-1969
 
Part of Lot 90, Lynn Addition; and parcels in the east half of the northeast
quarter of the northwest quarter, 12-116-30


337
 
4-14-1969
 
Parcel in the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter, 30-117-29


339
 
5-12-1969
 
Parcel in and abutting the northwest quarter, 1-116-30


340
 
6-9-1969
 
Part of Lots 8, 10, 19 and 20, Auditor’s Plat of the northwest quarter,
1-116-30


343
 
7-28-1969
 
Parcel in Lot 91, Lynn Addition


344
 
7-28-1969
 
Parcels in Lots 4, 5, 11, 12, 13 and 14, Auditor’s Plat of the northwest
quarter, 1-116-30


345
 
8-25-1969
 
Lot 17, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29


351
 
9-8-1969
 
Parcels in Lot 6, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, Section 30, and the
north half, Section 31, both in 117-29


352
 
10-13-1969
 
Part of Lot 6, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 32-117-29


353
 
12-22-1969
 
Tract in the east half, 2-116-30


354
 
11-24-1969
 
Tracts in and abutting County S.A.R. No. 25


355
 
11-24-1969
 
Lots 1, 2 and 14, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 32-117-29


356
 
11-24-1969
 
Lots 4, 5 and 15, Ahrens Highland Park Subdivision


363
 
5-11-1970
 
Parcels in the northwest quarter and the northeast quarter of the northeast
quarter, 12-116-30


364
 
5-25-1970
 
Lots 1 through 5, McDonald’s Addition


365
 
5-25-1970
 
Part of Lot 19, Auditor’s Plat of the northwest quarter of the northwest
quarter, 1-116-30


366
 
5-25-1970
 
Parcels of Lot 3, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29


374
 
8-10-1970
 
Part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter, 32-117-29


375
 
8-10-1970
 
Lot 9, Auditor’s Plat of Lot 15 of Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29, and Tract
B of Reg. Land Survey No. 1


378
 
9-28-1970
 
South 132 feet of the east 132 feet, Lot 91, Lynn Addition


382
 
9-28-1970
 
Parcel in Lot 91, Lynn Addition


383
 
11-9-1970
 
Parcels in the northeast quarter, 12-116-30


408
 
11-8-1971
 
Part of Lot 11, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 32-117-29


416
 
5-23-1972
 
Part of the west half, 32-117-29


417
 
7-25-1972
 
Two tracts in the northwest quarter, 36-117-30


426
 
9-12-1972
 
Part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter, 1-116-30


436
 
3-13-1973
 
Parcels in Lot 3, Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29


699
 
10-9-1984
 
Part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter, 2-116-30


703
 
11-27-1984
 
Parcels in the northeast quarter, 12-116-30, and the northeast quarter,
7-116-29


707
 
1-8-1985
 
Part of the southeast quarter, 2-116-30


721
 
9-10-1985
 
Part of Lots 9 and 14, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, 8-116-29; parcel
in the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter, 17-116-29; and parcel in
the northwest quarter, 8-116-29


760
 
8-25-1987
 
Part of the west half of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter, and
the west half of the east half of the southeast quarter of the southeast
quarter, 2-116-32; and the east half of the east half of the southeast
quarter of the southeast quarter, 2-116-32


763
 
10-13-1987
 
Parcels in Lots 3 and 4, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 32-117-29


768
 
12-8-1987
 
Tracts in the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of the southwest
quarter; the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of the southwest
quarter; the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of the southwest
quarter; and the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of the southwest
quarter, all in 1-116-30


777
 
6-14-1988
 
Part of Lots 11, 12, 13 and 15, Auditor’s Plat of the west half, 5-116-29


786
 
8-23-1988
 
Part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter, and part of the south
half of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter, 1-116-30


800
 
2-14-1989
 
Two parcels in the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of the
southwest quarter, 1-116-30


89-11
 
11-28-1989
 
Part of the north half of the southeast quarter, 2-116-30


89-12
 
11-28-1989
 
Part of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter, 1-116-30


90-27
 
9-25-1990
 
Three parcels in the south half of the southeast quarter of the northeast
quarter, 12-116-30


92-55
 
3-24-1992
 
Southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, 12-116-30, and part of the west
half of the southeast quarter, 12-116-30


92-73
 
12-8-1992
 
North 914.4 feet of Lot 6, Auditor’s Plat, west half, 32-117-29


93-75
 
3-23-1993
 
Three parcels in the south half, 2-116-30


93-79
 
4-13-1993
 
Lot 6, Auditor’s Plat, west half, 32-117-29


93-90
 
8-10-1993
 
Part of the south half, Section 2, part of the southeast quarter, Section 3,
and part of the northeast quarter, Section 10, all in 116-30


93-91
 
9-28-1993
 
Two parts of Auditor’s Plat, 7-116-29, Lot 1


94-103
 
2-22-1994
 
Part of the southwest quarter, 25-117-30


94-110
 
5-10-1994
 
Part of Lot 3, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, Section 30, and the north
half, Section 31, both in 117-29


94-113
 
6-14-1994
 
Part of Tract E of Reg. Land Survey No. 3


94-122
 
11-7-1994
 
Part of the west half of the southeast quarter, 32-117-29


94-126
 
12-27-1994
 
Part of the southwest quarter, 2-116-30


95-147
 
5-9-1995
 
Part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter, 7-116-29


95-157
 
8-8-1995
 
All unincorporated areas in the northwest quarter, 36-117-30; part of the
south three-fourths of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter,
36-117-30; all unincorporated areas in the southwest quarter of the southwest
quarter, 32-117-30; all unincorporated areas in 7-116-29


95-160
 
10-10-1995
 
Part of Lots 9 through 13 and 15, Auditor’s Plat, west half, 5-116-29


96-177
 
10-8-1996
 
Amends Ord. 95-157, to correct a legal description


97-194
 
5-13-1997
 
Part of Tract C of Reg. Land Survey No. 28


97-201
 
8-12-1997
 
Lot 5, Auditor’s Plat, west half, 32-117-29


97-215
 
1-13-1998
 
Parts of Tracts 14, 15 and 16, Auditor’s Plat of Lot 15 of Auditor’s Plat
of 7-116-29


98-226
 
7-14-1998
 
Part of Lot 1, Auditor’s Plat, west half, 32-117-29; part of Lot 7; part of
Lot 6, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, Section 30, and the north half,
Section 31, both in 117-29


00-271
 
5-9-2000
 
Parts of Lot 13, Auditor’s Plat of the south half, Section 30, and the
north half, Section 31, both in 117-29


00-281
 
8-8-2000
 
Amends Ord. 00-271


01-300
 
10-9-2001
 
1300 and 1310 Jefferson Street


01-301
 
10-9-2001
 
1470 South Grade Road, Lynn Township, in 11-116-30


02-312
 
5-14-2002
 
Part of Lots 13 and 14, and part of Lot 24, Auditor’s Plat of Lot 15, all
in Auditor’s Plat of 7-116-29; and Lot 8, south half, 8-116-29


02-323
 
11-12-2002
 
41.3 acres of property in Hassan Valley Township


03-354
 
9-9-2003
 
25.86 acres owned by Rodney and Ann Rieweer


03-360
 
11-12-2003
 
60 acres or less located on the west half of the northeast quarter of Section
5, Township 116, Range 29


04-380
 
2-23-2005
 
Annexing 23.85 acres located at Lot 19 of Auditor’s Plat of Section 7,
Township 116 North of Range 29 West


05-0423
 
11-8-2005
 
5.9 acres owned by the county and state


07-0484
 
11-27-2007
 
43 acres owned by the city


08-0505
 
6-10-2008
 
16.8 acres owned by the city and Stephen E. Lee


09-0522
 
3-10-2009
 
68 acres owned by Marvin Hackbarth and Rebecca Moehnke


09-0529
 
4-28-2009
 
5.97 acres owned by the county


10-0541
 
3-9-2010
 
5.65 acres owned by the city


10-0544
 
4-27-2010
 
36.8 acres owned by Hazel M. Sitz


11-0681
 
11-8-2011
 
1.52 acres owned by Timothy and Rebecca Albrecht


 
 
 
 
 




 



PARALLEL REFERENCES




References to Minnesota Statutes





References to 1989 Code





References to 2004 Code





References to Ordinances




REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES



 

M.S. Cites
 
Code Section




7, Art. 4
 
34.01


12.01 et seq.
 
33.04


12.25
 
33.01, 33.04


12.31
 
33.06


14.001—14.69
 
112.016


14.57—14.69
 
120.22, 121.13


15.99
 
154.095, 154.096, 154.178, 154.180, 154.181


84.92, Subd. 8
 
73.46


88.16—88.22
 
92.080


93.44—93.51
 
152.007


103B.3364
 
153.037


103F
 
154.085


103F.101—103F.165
 
154.085


103G
 
152.001, 152.058


103G.005
 
152.007


103G.005, Subd. 14
 
154.088


103G.221 et seq.
 
153.037


103G.245
 
152.039, 154.095


105
 
154.088


115
 
53.076


115.01(8)
 
53.076


115.01, Subd. 21
 
53.076


115.03, Subd. 1, par. (e), clause (2)
 
53.076


115.07
 
53.076


115A.03(11)
 
117.15


115A.03(12)
 
117.15


115A.94
 
117.18


116
 
53.076


116.07
 
91.11


117
 
Charter § 9.01


120A.05, Subd. 9, 11, 13
 
113.26


144.381—144.387
 
52.13


144.411—144.417
 
113.32


145A.08
 
130.38


152.02
 
130.36


157.15
 
112.121


160.02
 
90.03


161.242
 
91.02


168.10
 
91.02


168B
 
91.01


168B.011, Subd. 3
 
92.020


168B.035
 
91.02, 91.04


168B.09, Subd. 2
 
91.01


169
 
70.01, 70.06


169.01
 
91.02


169.011, Subd. 40a.
 
73.46


169.045
 
73.45


169.075, Subd. 1(3)
 
73.46


169.48 to 169.68
 
73.47


169.69
 
71.10


169.225
 
73.20


169.522
 
73.47


169.693
 
71.10


176.001 et seq.
 
33.07, 116.38


204B.14
 
30.03


205.10, Subd. 6
 
Charter § 4.02


216C.06, Subd. 14
 
154.172


260B.198
 
131.99


270C.72
 
34.12


278
 
120.22, 121.13


289A
 
34.11


297A
 
34.03, 34.12


297A.061
 
34.02


297A.665
 
34.05


297A.72
 
34.05


297B.01, Subd. 11
 
34.02, 34.03


299J.02(11)
 
154.114


299J.05
 
154.114


307.08
 
152.007


325F.731—325.744
 
120.18


325J.04, Subd. 2
 
120.39


326B.082, Subd. 16
 
150.001


326B.101—326B.194
 
150.001


326B.121(1)
 
150.001


326B.133
 
150.054


326B.133(1)
 
150.001


326B.148
 
150.001, 150.015


326B.153
 
150.015


327.31—327.35
 
154.060


327.32
 
154.060


327.34
 
154.060


333
 
120.18, 121.08


340A.101, Subd. 7
 
112.121


340A.301, Subd. 6(c)
 
112.135, 112.136


340A.301, Subd. 6(d)
 
112.135, 112.137


340A.301, Subd. 6(i)
 
112.136, 112.137


340A.301, Subd. 6(j)
 
112.136, 112.137


340A.301, Subd. 7(b)
 
112.138, 112.139


340A.404(12)
 
112.092


340A.408
 
112.136, 112.137, 112.139


340A.409
 
112.094


340A.802
 
112.015


340A.4011, Subd. 1
 
112.121


344.02, Subd. 1(a)—(d)
 
154.087


347
 
130.36


347.50—347.56
 
93.04


347.51
 
93.03


347.54
 
93.03


349.11 et seq.
 
114.21


349.11—349.61
 
120.43


349A.01—349A.15
 
120.43


360.063
 
151.01


360.063(3)
 
151.65


360.063(6)
 
151.48, 151.65


360.063(7)
 
151.65


360.063(8)
 
151.65


360.067(2)
 
151.62


360.073
 
151.64


364
 
32.33


364.03, Subd. 3
 
121.06


364.03(3)
 
120.16


364.06
 
32.31


364.09
 
32.31


366.017
 
154.114


366.10—366.180
 
154.114


394.21—394.37
 
154.114


412.851
 
Charter § 13.05


415.11
 
Charter § 2.08, 30.33


415.16, Subd. 2
 
Charter § 6.01


419.01—419.18
 
31.27


429
 
90.02


429.061
 
92.024


429.101
 
92.001, 92.002, 92.024, 92.043


444.075
 
53.130, 53.133, 53.138


462
 
152.007, 152.113, 154.085


462.351—462.365
 
154.114


462.358
 
153.002, 154.182


462.3593
 
154.026


462.3593, Subd. 9
 
154.026


463
 
150.051


463.15 et seq.
 
150.050


463.15—463.26
 
92.001


463.16
 
130.40


463.17
 
92.023


469.190
 
116.02, 116.38


471.345
 
30.33


471.345(1)—471.345(3)
 
30.33


471.924
 
120.18


505
 
152.074, 154.182


505.021
 
152.072


514.67
 
92.001


515
 
154.059


515.11
 
154.059


515.13
 
154.059


518B.01
 
121.12, 121.13


525.14
 
94.15


609
 
119.05


609.035
 
130.36


609.72
 
130.36


609.74—609.745
 
130.36


609.79
 
121.12, 121.13


609.221
 
130.36


609.222
 
130.36


609.223
 
130.36


609.224
 
130.36


609.293—609.352
 
121.12, 121.13


609.746—609.749
 
121.12, 121.13


609.2231
 
130.36


617.202
 
155.04


617.23
 
130.36


617.293
 
121.04, 155.04


617.295
 
121.04, 155.04


624.20
 
130.08


624.20(1)(c)
 
130.08


624.714
 
130.05


626.862
 
10.20


 
 
 




 



REFERENCES TO 1989 CODE



 

1989 Code
 
2004 Code




2.01
 
30.01


2.02
 
30.15


2.03
 
30.16


2.04
 
30.17, 30.18


2.05
 
32.01


2.06
 
32.02


2.07
 
30.30


2.08
 
30.31


2.09
 
30.32


2.11
 
30.33


2.12
 
110.12


2.13
 
30.34


2.30
 
31.01


2.31
 
31.02


2.32
 
31.03


2.33
 
31.04


2.34
 
31.06


2.35
 
31.05


2.36
 
31.07


2.37
 
31.08


2.38
 
31.09


2.50
 
31.20


2.51
 
31.21


2.53
 
31.22


2.54
 
31.23


2.55
 
31.27


2.56
 
31.24


2.59
 
31.28


2.60
 
31.25


2.61
 
31.26


2.70
 
91.25—91.28, 91.40—91.43, 91.55, 91.56


2.72
 
32.03


2.73
 
32.15


2.74
 
30.02


2.75
 
150.30


2.80
 
94.01—94.03, 94.15—94.20, 94.35—94.47


3.01
 
50.01


3.02
 
50.02


3.03
 
50.03


3.04
 
50.15—50.22


3.10
 
51.01—51.06


3.20
 
52.01—52.11


3.30
 
53.001, 53.015—53.023, 53.035—53.040, 53.050—53.058, 53.100—53.107,
53.140—53.144


3.31
 
53.070—53.090


3.40
 
50.35—50.39


3.50
 
53.120—53.129


4.01
 
150.03


4.02
 
150.15


4.03
 
150.16


4.04
 
150.17


4.05
 
150.18


4.06
 
150.19


4.10
 
150.20


4.20
 
150.45


4.21
 
150.46—150.54, 150.65—150.67


4.22
 
150.55


4.23
 
150.80—150.84


4.30
 
150.31


4.31
 
150.32


4.32
 
154.120


5.01
 
112.001


5.02
 
112.015—112.020


5.03
 
112.021


5.04
 
112.022


5.05
 
112.023


5.06
 
112.024


5.07
 
112.025


5.08
 
112.040


5.09
 
112.041


5.10
 
112.042


5.11
 
112.040


5.12
 
112.002


5.13
 
112.026


5.14
 
112.026


5.15
 
112.055


5.16
 
112.043


5.17
 
112.056


5.18
 
112.057


5.19
 
112.058


5.30
 
112.070


5.31
 
112.071


5.32
 
112.072


5.40
 
112.085


5.41
 
112.086


5.42
 
112.087


5.43
 
112.088


5.44
 
112.089


5.45
 
112.090


5.46
 
112.091


5.50
 
112.092


5.51
 
112.093


5.60
 
112.105


5.61
 
112.106


5.70
 
112.120, 112.121


5.71
 
112.122


5.80
 
112.044


6.01
 
110.01


6.02
 
110.02


6.03
 
110.03


6.04
 
110.04


6.05
 
110.05


6.06
 
110.06


6.07
 
110.07


6.08
 
110.08


6.09
 
110.09


6.10
 
110.10


6.11
 
110.11


6.20
 
114.01—114.06


6.21
 
113.01—113.13, 113.99


6.23
 
117.15—117.23


6.24
 
117.01


6.25
 
115.01—115.06


6.26
 
114.20—114.23


6.40
 
116.01, 116.02, 116.15—116.22, 116.35—116.39


6.41
 
118.01—118.05, 118.07, 118.07, 120.01, 120.02, 120.15—120.22,
120.35—120.46


6.43
 
119.01—119.07


6.44
 
114.35—114.38


7.01
 
70.01


7.02
 
70.02


7.03
 
70.03, 70.04


7.04
 
70.05


7.05
 
90.01


7.06
 
90.02


7.07
 
90.03


7.08
 
90.04


7.09
 
71.01


7.10
 
90.05


7.11
 
71.02


7.13
 
90.06


7.14
 
90.07


7.15
 
90.08


7.30
 
73.30


7.31
 
90.09


7.99
 
70.07, 90.10


8.01
 
70.06


8.02
 
71.03


8.03
 
71.04


8.04
 
71.05


8.05
 
71.06


8.06
 
71.07


8.07
 
71.08


8.08
 
71.09


8.09
 
73.01—73.04, Ch. 74 Sch. I


8.10
 
73.15


8.11
 
73.16


8.12
 
73.31, Ch. 74 Sch. I


8.99
 
70.07


9.01
 
72.25


9.02
 
72.01


9.03
 
72.07


9.04
 
72.02


9.05
 
72.03


9.06
 
72.04


9.07
 
72.05


9.08
 
72.06


9.09
 
72.08


9.10
 
72.26


9.11
 
72.09


9.12
 
72.10


9.13
 
72.11


9.14
 
72.12, 72.13


9.15
 
72.14


9.99
 
70.07


10.04
 
131.02


10.05
 
130.01—130.05, 130.07, 130.09


10.051
 
130.08


10.06
 
93.15, 93.16, 93.18, 93.19, 93.20—93.28


10.07
 
93.40—93.44


10.08
 
93.01


10.32
 
96.01, 96.02


10.41
 
130.20


10.42
 
130.21


10.43
 
130.22


10.44
 
130.23


10.45
 
130.24


10.46
 
132.01—132.07


10.47
 
132.20—132.24


10.51
 
132.40—132.44


10.52
 
131.03, 131.99


10.60
 
95.01—95.03


11.1.01
 
154.001


11.2.01
 
154.002


11.2.02
 
154.003


11.3
 
154.004


11.4.01
 
154.150


11.4.02
 
154.151


11.4.03
 
154.152


11.4.04
 
154.153


11.4.05
 
154.154


11.6.01
 
154.165


11.6.02
 
154.166


11.6.03
 
154.166


11.6.04
 
154.167


11.6.05
 
154.168


11.6.06
 
154.169


11.6.07
 
154.170


11.6.08
 
154.171


11.6.09
 
154.172


11.7.01
 
154.015


11.7.02
 
154.017


11.7.03
 
154.018


11.7.04
 
154.016


11.7.05
 
154.019


11.7.06
 
154.022


11.7.07
 
154.023


11.7.08
 
154.024


11.7.09
 
154.020


11.7.10
 
154.024


11.7.11
 
154.024


11.7.12
 
154.021


11.7.13
 
154.025


11.7.14
 
154.026


11.8.01
 
154.040, 154.041


11.8.02
 
154.042


11.8.03
 
154.055


11.8.04
 
154.056


11.8.05
 
154.057


11.8.06
 
154.058


11.8.07
 
154.059


11.8.08
 
154.060


11.8.09
 
154.061


11.8.10
 
154.062


11.8.11
 
154.063


11.8.12
 
154.064


11.8.13
 
154.065, 154.066


11.8.14
 
154.067


11.8.15
 
154.068


11.8.16
 
154.069


11.8.17
 
154.070


11.8.18.1
 
154.085


11.8.18.2
 
154.086


11.8.18.3
 
154.087


11.8.18.4
 
154.088


11.8.18.5
 
154.089


11.8.18.6
 
154.090


11.8.18.7
 
154.091


11.8.18.8
 
154.092


11.8.18.9
 
154.093, 154.094


11.8.18.10
 
154.095


11.8.18.11
 
154.096


11.8.18.12
 
154.097


11.8.18.13
 
154.098


11.8.18.14
 
154.099


11.8.19
 
154.114


11.9
 
Ch. 154 App. A


11.10.01
 
154.115


11.10.02
 
154.116


11.10.03
 
Ch. 154 App. B


11.10.04
 
154.110


11.10.05
 
154.111, 154.112


11.10.06
 
154.113


11.10.06
 
154.117


11.10.07
 
154.118


11.10.08
 
154.119


11.10.09
 
154.120


11.10.10
 
154.121


11.10.11
 
154.122


11.10.12
 
154.123


11.10.13
 
154.124


11.10.14
 
154.135—154.139


11.10.15
 
154.125


Ch. 11, App. A
 
152.001—152.007, 152.020, 152.021, 152.035—152.044, 152.055—152.058,
152.070—152.075, 152.085—152.091, 152.105—152.109


12.01
 
153.01—153.07


12.02
 
153.08


12.09
 
153.20, 153.21


12.10
 
153.35—153.39


12.20
 
153.50, 153.51


12.40
 
153.65—153.84


12.60
 
153.95


12.70
 
153.97


12.71
 
153.98


12.80
 
153.96


12.81
 
153.96


13.01
 
151.01


13.02
 
151.02


13.03
 
151.03


13.10
 
151.15—151.17


13.11
 
151.30—151.32


13.12
 
151.04


13.20
 
151.45


13.21
 
151.46, 151.47


13.22
 
151.48


13.23
 
151.49


13.30
 
151.60


13.31
 
151.61


13.32
 
151.62


13.33
 
151.63


13.34
 
151.64


13.35
 
151.65


Ch. 13, Exhibit A-1
 
Ch. 151 App.


Ch. 13, Exhibit A-2
 
Ch. 151 App.


Ch. 13, Exhibit A-3
 
Ch. 151 App.


 
 
 




 



REFERENCES TO 2004 CODE



 

2004 Code
 
2015 Code




10.01
 
10.01


10.02
 
10.02


10.03
 
10.03


10.04
 
10.04


10.05
 
10.05


10.06
 
10.06


10.07
 
10.07


10.08
 
10.08


10.09
 
10.09


10.10
 
10.10


10.11
 
10.11


10.12
 
10.12


10.13
 
10.13


10.14
 
10.14


10.15
 
10.15


10.16
 
10.16


10.17
 
10.17


10.18
 
10.18


10.19
 
10.19


10.20
 
10.20


10.99
 
10.99


30.01
 
30.01


30.02
 
30.02


30.03
 
30.03


30.15
 
30.15


30.16
 
30.16


30.17
 
30.17


30.18
 
30.18


30.30
 
30.30


30.31
 
30.31


30.32
 
30.32


30.33
 
30.33


30.34
 
30.33


31.01
 
31.01


31.02
 
31.02


31.03
 
31.03


31.04
 
31.04


31.05
 
31.05


31.06
 
31.06


31.07
 
31.07


31.08
 
31.08


31.09
 
31.09


31.20
 
31.20


31.21
 
31.21


31.24
 
31.23


31.25
 
31.24


31.26
 
31.25


31.27
 
31.26


31.28
 
31.27


31.29
 
31.27


31.31
 
31.29


31.32
 
31.30


31.33
 
31.30


32.01
 
32.01


32.02
 
32.02


32.03
 
32.03


32.15
 
32.15


32.20
 
32.30


32.21
 
32.31


32.22
 
32.32


32.23
 
32.33


32.24
 
32.34


33.01
 
33.01


33.02
 
33.02


33.03
 
33.03


33.04
 
33.04


33.05
 
33.05


33.06
 
33.06


33.07
 
33.07


33.08
 
33.08


33.99
 
33.99


35.01
 
34.01


35.02
 
34.02


35.03
 
34.03


35.04
 
34.04


35.05
 
34.05


35.06
 
34.06


35.07
 
34.07


35.08
 
34.08


35.09
 
34.09


35.10
 
34.10


35.11
 
34.11


35.12
 
34.12


35.13
 
34.13


50.01
 
50.01


50.02
 
50.02


50.03
 
50.03


50.15
 
50.15


50.16
 
50.16


50.17
 
50.17


50.18
 
50.18


50.19
 
50.19


50.20
 
50.20


50.21
 
50.21


50.22
 
50.22


50.35
 
50.35


50.36
 
50.36


50.37
 
50.37


50.38
 
50.38


50.39
 
50.39


51.01
 
51.01


51.02
 
51.02


51.03
 
51.03


51.04
 
51.04


51.05
 
51.05


51.06
 
51.06


52.01
 
52.01


52.02
 
52.02


52.03
 
52.03


52.04
 
52.04


52.05
 
52.05


52.06
 
52.06


52.07
 
52.07


52.08
 
52.08


52.09
 
52.09


52.10
 
52.09


52.11
 
52.11


52.12
 
52.12


52.13
 
52.13


53.001
 
53.001


53.015
 
53.015


53.016
 
53.016


53.017
 
53.017


53.018
 
53.018


53.019
 
53.019


53.020
 
53.020


53.021
 
53.021


53.022
 
53.022


53.023
 
53.023


53.035
 
53.035


53.036
 
53.036


53.037
 
53.037


53.038
 
53.038


53.039
 
53.039


53.040
 
53.040


53.050
 
53.055


53.051
 
53.056


53.052
 
53.057


53.053
 
53.058


53.054
 
53.059


53.055
 
53.060


53.056
 
53.061


53.057
 
53.062


53.058
 
53.063


53.070
 
53.075


53.071
 
53.076


53.072
 
53.077


53.073
 
53.078


53.074
 
53.079


53.075
 
53.080


53.076
 
53.081


53.077
 
53.082


53.078
 
53.083


53.079
 
53.084


53.080
 
53.085


53.081
 
53.086


53.082
 
53.087


53.083
 
53.088


53.084
 
53.089


53.085
 
53.090


53.086
 
53.091


53.087
 
53.092


53.088
 
53.093


53.089
 
53.094


53.090
 
53.095


53.100
 
53.110


53.101
 
53.111


53.102
 
53.112


53.103
 
53.113


53.104
 
53.114


53.105
 
53.115


53.106
 
53.116


53.107
 
53.117


53.120
 
53.130


53.121
 
53.131


53.122
 
53.132


53.123
 
53.133


53.124
 
53.134


53.125
 
53.135


53.126
 
53.136


53.127
 
53.137


53.128
 
53.138


53.129
 
53.139


53.140
 
53.150


53.141
 
53.151


53.142
 
53.152


53.143
 
53.153


53.144
 
53.154


54.01
 
54.001


54.02
 
54.002


54.03
 
54.003


54.04
 
54.004


54.05
 
54.005


54.10
 
54.020


54.11
 
54.021


54.12
 
54.022


54.13
 
54.023


54.20
 
54.035


54.21
 
54.036


54.22
 
54.037


54.23
 
54.038


54.24
 
54.039


54.25
 
54.040


54.26
 
54.040


54.27
 
54.042


54.30
 
54.055


54.31
 
54.056


54.32
 
54.057


54.40
 
54.070


54.41
 
54.071


54.42
 
54.072


54.43
 
54.073


54.50
 
54.085


54.51
 
54.086


54.52
 
54.087


54.53
 
54.088


70.01
 
70.01


70.02
 
70.02


70.03
 
70.03


70.04
 
70.04


70.05
 
70.05


70.06
 
70.06


70.07
 
70.07


71.01
 
71.01


71.02
 
71.02


71.03
 
71.03


71.04
 
71.04


71.05
 
71.05


71.06
 
71.06


71.07
 
71.07


71.08
 
71.08


71.09
 
71.09


71.11
 
71.10


72.01
 
72.01


72.02
 
72.02


72.03
 
72.03


72.04
 
72.04


72.05
 
72.05


72.06
 
72.06


72.07
 
72.07


72.08
 
72.08


72.09
 
72.09


72.10
 
72.10


72.11
 
72.11


72.12
 
72.12


72.13
 
72.13


72.14
 
72.14


72.15
 
72.15


72.25
 
72.30


72.26
 
72.31


73.01
 
73.01


73.02
 
73.02


73.04
 
73.03


73.05
 
73.04


73.17
 
73.20


73.30
 
73.35


73.31
 
73.36


Ch. 74 Schd. I
 
Ch. 74 Schd. I


Ch. 74 Schd. II
 
Ch. 74 Schd. II


90.01
 
90.01


90.02
 
90.02


90.03
 
90.03


90.04
 
90.04


90.05
 
90.05


90.06
 
90.06


90.07
 
90.07


90.08
 
90.08


90.09
 
90.09


90.10
 
90.10


91.01
 
91.01


91.02
 
91.02


91.03
 
91.03


91.04
 
91.04


91.05
 
91.05


91.06
 
91.06


91.07
 
91.07


91.08
 
91.08


91.09
 
91.09


91.10
 
91.10


91.11
 
91.11


91.25
 
91.25


91.26
 
91.26


91.27
 
91.27


91.28
 
91.28


91.40
 
91.40


91.41
 
91.41


91.42
 
91.42


91.43
 
91.43


91.55
 
91.55


91.56
 
91.56


92.01
 
92.001


92.02
 
92.002


92.15
 
92.015


92.16
 
92.016


92.17
 
92.017


92.18
 
92.018


92.19
 
92.019


92.20
 
92.020


92.21
 
92.021


92.22
 
92.022


92.23
 
92.023


92.24
 
92.024


92.35
 
92.035


92.36
 
92.036


92.37
 
92.037


92.38
 
92.038


92.39
 
92.039


92.40
 
92.040


92.41
 
92.041


92.42
 
92.042


92.43
 
92.043


92.50
 
92.055


92.51
 
92.056


92.52
 
92.057


92.53
 
92.058


92.54
 
92.059


92.60
 
92.070


92.61
 
92.071


92.62
 
92.072


92.63
 
92.073


92.64
 
92.074


92.65
 
92.075


92.66
 
92.076


92.67
 
92.077


92.68
 
92.078


92.69
 
92.079


92.70
 
92.080


92.99
 
92.999


93.01
 
93.01


93.02
 
93.02


93.03
 
93.03


93.04
 
93.04


93.15
 
93.15


93.16
 
93.16


93.17
 
93.17


93.18
 
93.18


93.19
 
93.19


93.20
 
93.20


93.21
 
93.21


93.22
 
93.22


93.23
 
93.23


93.24
 
93.24


93.25
 
93.25


93.26
 
93.26


93.27
 
93.27


93.28
 
93.28


93.40
 
93.40


93.41
 
93.41


93.42
 
93.42


93.43
 
93.43


93.44
 
93.44


94.01
 
94.01


94.02
 
94.02


94.03
 
94.03


94.15
 
94.15


94.16
 
94.16


94.17
 
94.17


94.18
 
94.18


94.19
 
94.19


94.20
 
94.20


94.35
 
94.35


94.36
 
94.36


94.37
 
94.37


94.38
 
94.38


94.39
 
94.39


94.40
 
94.40


94.41
 
94.41


94.42
 
94.42


94.43
 
94.43


94.44
 
94.44


94.45
 
94.45


95.01
 
95.01


95.02
 
95.02


95.03
 
95.03


95.04
 
95.04


96.01
 
96.01


96.02
 
96.02


110.01
 
110.01


110.02
 
110.02


110.03
 
110.03


110.04
 
110.04


110.05
 
110.05


110.06
 
110.06


110.07
 
110.07


110.08
 
110.08


110.09
 
110.09


110.10
 
110.10


110.11
 
110.11


110.12
 
110.12


111.01
 
111.01


111.02
 
111.02


111.03
 
111.03


111.04
 
111.04


111.05
 
111.05


111.06
 
111.06


111.07
 
111.07


111.08
 
111.08


111.09
 
111.09


111.10
 
111.10


111.11
 
111.11


111.12
 
111.12


111.13
 
111.13


111.14
 
111.14


112.001
 
112.001


112.002
 
112.002


112.015
 
112.015


112.016
 
112.016


112.017
 
112.017


112.018
 
112.018


112.019
 
112.019


112.020
 
112.020


112.021
 
112.021


112.022
 
112.022


112.023
 
112.023


112.024
 
112.024


112.025
 
112.025


112.026
 
112.026


112.040
 
112.040


112.041
 
112.041


112.042
 
112.042


112.043
 
112.043


112.044
 
112.044


112.055
 
112.055


112.056
 
112.056


112.057
 
112.057


112.058
 
112.058


112.059
 
112.059


112.070
 
112.070


112.071
 
112.071


112.072
 
112.072


112.085
 
112.085


112.086
 
112.086


112.087
 
112.087


112.088
 
112.088


112.089
 
112.089


112.090
 
112.090


112.091
 
112.091


112.092
 
112.092


112.093
 
112.092


112.105
 
112.105


112.106
 
112.105


112.120
 
112.120


112.121
 
112.121


112.122
 
112.122


113.01
 
113.01


113.02
 
113.02


113.03
 
113.03


113.04
 
113.04


113.05
 
113.05


113.06
 
113.06


113.07
 
113.07


113.08
 
113.08


113.09
 
113.09


113.10
 
113.10


113.11
 
113.11


113.12
 
113.12


113.13
 
113.13


113.20
 
113.25


113.21
 
113.26


113.22
 
113.27


113.23
 
113.28


113.24
 
113.29


113.25
 
113.30


113.26
 
113.31


113.27
 
113.32


113.28
 
113.33


113.99
 
113.99


114.01
 
114.01


114.02
 
114.02


114.03
 
114.03


114.04
 
114.04


114.05
 
114.05


114.06
 
114.06


114.20
 
114.20


114.21
 
114.21


114.22
 
114.22


114.23
 
114.23


114.35
 
114.35


114.36
 
114.36


114.37
 
114.37


114.38
 
114.38


115.01
 
115.01


115.02
 
115.02


115.03
 
115.03


115.04
 
115.04


115.05
 
115.05


115.06
 
115.06


116.01
 
116.01


116.02
 
116.02


116.15
 
116.15


116.16
 
116.16


116.17
 
116.17


116.18
 
116.18


116.19
 
116.19


116.20
 
116.20


116.21
 
116.21


116.22
 
116.22


116.35
 
116.35


116.36
 
116.36


116.37
 
116.37


116.38
 
116.38


116.39
 
116.39


117.01
 
117.01


117.15
 
117.15


117.16
 
117.16


117.17
 
117.17


117.18
 
117.18


117.19
 
117.19


117.20
 
117.20


117.21
 
117.21


117.22
 
117.22


117.23
 
117.23


117.35
 
117.35


117.36
 
117.36


117.37
 
117.37


117.38
 
117.38


117.39
 
117.39


117.40
 
117.40


117.41
 
117.41


118.01
 
118.01


118.02
 
118.02


118.03
 
118.03


118.04
 
118.04


118.05
 
118.05


118.07
 
118.07


119.01
 
119.01


119.02
 
119.02


119.03
 
119.03


119.04
 
119.04


119.05
 
119.05


119.06
 
119.06


119.07
 
119.07


120.01
 
120.01


120.02
 
120.02


120.15
 
120.15


120.16
 
120.16


120.17
 
120.17


120.18
 
120.18


120.19
 
120.19


120.20
 
120.20


120.21
 
120.21


120.22
 
120.22


120.35
 
120.35


120.36
 
120.36


120.37
 
120.37


120.38
 
120.38


120.39
 
120.39


120.40
 
120.40


120.41
 
120.41


120.42
 
120.42


120.43
 
120.43


120.44
 
120.44


120.45
 
120.45


120.46
 
120.46


120.47
 
120.47


120.48
 
120.48


120.49
 
120.49


120.50
 
120.50


120.51
 
120.51


120.52
 
120.52


121.01
 
121.01


121.02
 
121.02


121.03
 
121.03


121.04
 
121.04


121.05
 
121.05


121.06
 
121.06


121.07
 
121.07


121.08
 
121.08


121.09
 
121.09


121.10
 
121.10


121.11
 
121.11


121.12
 
121.12


121.13
 
121.13


121.99
 
121.99


Ch. 121 App. I
 
Ch. 121 App. A


122.01
 
122.01


122.02
 
122.02


122.03
 
122.03


122.04
 
122.04


122.05
 
122.05


122.06
 
122.06


122.07
 
122.07


122.08
 
122.08


122.09
 
122.09


122.10
 
122.10


122.11
 
122.11


122.12
 
122.12


122.13
 
122.13


122.14
 
122.14


122.15
 
122.15


122.16
 
122.16


122.17
 
122.17


122.18
 
122.18


122.99
 
122.99


123.01
 
123.01


123.02
 
123.02


123.03
 
123.03


123.04
 
123.04


123.99
 
123.99


130.01
 
130.01


130.02
 
130.02


130.03
 
130.03


130.04
 
130.04


130.05
 
130.05


130.06
 
130.06


130.07
 
130.07


130.08
 
130.08


130.09
 
130.09


130.30
 
130.35


130.31
 
130.36


130.32
 
130.37


130.33
 
130.38


130.34
 
130.39


130.35
 
130.40


130.36
 
130.41


130.37
 
130.42


130.38
 
130.43


130.39
 
130.99


131.01
 
131.01


131.02
 
131.02


131.03
 
131.03


131.99
 
131.99


132.01
 
132.01


132.02
 
132.02


132.03
 
132.03


132.04
 
132.04


132.05
 
132.05


132.06
 
132.06


132.07
 
132.07


132.20
 
132.20


132.21
 
132.21


132.22
 
132.22


132.23
 
132.23


132.24
 
132.24


132.40
 
132.40


132.41
 
132.41


132.42
 
132.42


132.43
 
132.43


132.44
 
132.44


150.01
 
150.001


150.15
 
150.015


150.16
 
150.016


150.17
 
150.017


150.18
 
150.018


150.19
 
150.019


150.20
 
150.020


150.30
 
150.035


150.31
 
150.036


150.32
 
150.037


150.80
 
150.050


150.81
 
150.051


150.82
 
150.052


150.83
 
150.053


150.84
 
150.054


150.90
 
150.065


151.01
 
151.01


151.02
 
151.02


151.03
 
151.03


151.04
 
151.04


151.15
 
151.15


151.16
 
151.16


151.17
 
151.17


151.30
 
151.30


151.31
 
151.31


151.32
 
151.32


151.45
 
151.45


151.46
 
151.46


151.47
 
151.47


151.48
 
151.48


151.49
 
151.49


151.60
 
151.60


151.61
 
151.61


151.62
 
151.62


151.63
 
151.63


151.64
 
151.64


151.65
 
151.65


Ch. 151 App.
 
Ch. 151 App. A


152.001
 
152.001


152.002
 
152.002


152.003
 
152.003


152.004
 
152.004


152.005
 
152.005


152.006
 
152.006


152.007
 
152.007


152.020
 
152.020


152.021
 
152.021


152.035
 
152.035


152.036
 
152.036


152.037
 
152.037


152.038
 
152.038


152.039
 
152.039


152.040
 
152.040


152.041
 
152.041


152.042
 
152.042


152.043
 
152.043


152.044
 
152.044


152.055
 
152.055


152.056
 
152.056


152.057
 
152.057


152.058
 
152.058


152.070
 
152.070


152.071
 
152.071


152.072
 
152.072


152.073
 
152.073


152.074
 
152.074


152.075
 
152.075


152.085
 
152.090


152.086
 
152.091


152.087
 
152.092


152.088
 
152.093


152.089
 
152.094


152.090
 
152.095


152.091
 
152.096


152.105
 
152.110


152.106
 
152.111


152.107
 
152.112


152.108
 
152.113


152.109
 
152.114


153.01
 
153.001


153.02
 
153.002


153.03
 
153.003


153.04
 
153.004


153.05
 
153.005


153.06
 
153.006


153.07
 
153.007


153.08
 
153.008


153.20
 
153.020


153.21
 
153.021


153.35
 
153.035


153.36
 
153.036


153.37
 
153.037


153.38
 
153.038


153.39
 
153.039


153.50
 
153.050


153.51
 
153.051


153.65
 
153.065


153.66
 
153.066


153.67
 
153.067


153.68
 
153.068


153.69
 
153.069


153.70
 
153.070


153.71
 
153.071


153.72
 
153.072


153.73
 
153.073


153.74
 
153.074


153.75
 
153.075


153.76
 
153.076


153.77
 
153.077


153.78
 
153.078


153.79
 
153.079


153.80
 
153.080


153.81
 
153.081


153.82
 
153.082


153.83
 
153.083


153.84
 
153.084


153.85
 
153.085


153.95
 
153.100


153.96
 
153.101


153.97
 
153.102


153.98
 
153.103


154.001
 
154.001


154.002
 
154.002


154.003
 
154.003


154.004
 
154.004


154.015
 
154.015


154.016
 
154.016


154.017
 
154.017


154.018
 
154.018


154.019
 
154.019


154.020
 
154.020


154.021
 
154.021


154.022
 
154.022


154.023
 
154.023


154.024
 
154.024


154.025
 
154.025


154.026
 
154.026


154.027
 
154.027


154.040
 
154.040


154.041
 
154.041


154.042
 
154.042


154.055
 
154.055


154.056
 
154.056


154.057
 
154.057


154.058
 
154.058


154.059
 
154.059


154.060
 
154.060


154.061
 
154.061


154.062
 
154.062


154.063
 
154.063


154.064
 
154.064


154.065
 
154.065


154.066
 
154.066


154.067
 
154.067


154.068
 
154.068


154.069
 
154.069


154.070
 
154.070


154.071
 
154.071


154.072
 
154.072


154.085
 
154.085


154.086
 
154.086


154.087
 
154.088


154.088
 
154.089


154.089
 
154.090


154.092
 
154.094


154.098
 
154.097


154.099
 
154.098


154.110
 
154.110


154.111
 
154.111


154.112
 
154.112


154.113
 
154.113


154.114
 
154.114


154.115
 
154.115


154.116
 
154.116


154.117
 
154.117


154.118
 
154.118


154.119
 
154.119


154.120
 
154.120


154.121
 
154.121


154.122
 
154.122


154.123
 
154.123


154.124
 
154.124


154.125
 
154.125


154.135
 
154.140


154.136
 
154.141


154.137
 
154.142


154.138
 
154.143


154.139
 
154.144


154.150
 
154.155


154.151
 
154.156


154.152
 
154.157


154.153
 
154.158


154.154
 
154.159


154.165
 
154.170


154.166
 
154.171


154.167
 
154.172


154.168
 
154.173


154.169
 
154.174


154.170
 
154.175


154.171
 
154.176


154.172
 
154.177


154.173
 
154.178


154.174
 
154.179


154.175
 
154.180


154.176
 
154.181


154.177
 
154.182


Ch. 154 App. A
 
Ch. 154 App. A


Ch. 154 App. B
 
Ch. 154 App. B


155.01
 
155.01


155.02
 
155.02


155.03
 
155.03


155.04
 
155.04


155.05
 
155.05


155.06
 
155.06


155.99
 
155.99


156.01
 
156.01


156.02
 
156.02


156.03
 
156.03


156.04
 
156.04


156.05
 
156.05


156.06
 
156.06


156.07
 
156.07


156.08
 
156.08


156.09
 
156.09


156.10
 
156.10


157.01
 
157.01


157.02
 
157.02


157.03
 
157.03


157.04
 
157.04


157.05
 
157.05


157.06
 
157.06


157.07
 
157.07


Ch. 157 App.
 
Ch. 157 App. A


 
 
 




 



REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES



 

Ord. No.
 
Date Passed
 
Code Section




134
 
12-22-1947
 
TSO Table IX


163
 
11-10-1952
 
TSO Table IX


174
 
5-10-1954
 
TSO Table IX


179
 
5-9-1955
 
TSO Table IX


188
 
2-27-1956
 
TSO Table IX


193
 
3-25-1957
 
TSO Table IX


194
 
5-13-1957
 
TSO Table IX


197
 
7-8-1957
 
TSO Table IX


199
 
8-12-1957
 
TSO Table IX


201
 
9-9-1957
 
TSO Table IX


203
 
10-14-1957
 
TSO Table IX


205
 
10-28-1957
 
TSO Table IX


207
 
11-25-1957
 
TSO Table IX


210
 
9-22-1958
 
TSO Table IX


211
 
9-22-1958
 
TSO Table IX


214
 
1-26-1959
 
TSO Table IX


216
 
2-23-1959
 
TSO Table IX


221
 
10-27-1959
 
TSO Table IX


228
 
5-10-1960
 
TSO Table IX


229
 
5-31-1960
 
TSO Table IX


231
 
7-26-1960
 
TSO Table IX


242
 
8-28-1961
 
TSO Table IX


244
 
2-12-1962
 
TSO Table IX


243
 
2-26-1962
 
TSO Table IX


246
 
4-23-1962
 
TSO Table IX


249
 
10-8-1962
 
TSO Table IX


256
 
7-22-1963
 
TSO Table IX


257
 
10-14-1963
 
TSO Table IX


258
 
11-11-1963
 
TSO Table IX


259
 
2-10-1964
 
TSO Table IX


261
 
5-11-1964
 
TSO Table IX


262
 
5-11-1964
 
TSO Table IX


268
 
1-25-1965
 
TSO Table IX


269
 
1-25-1965
 
TSO Table IX


278
 
5-23-1966
 
TSO Table IX


279
 
5-23-1966
 
TSO Table IX


280
 
6-13-1966
 
TSO Table IX


289
 
7-24-1967
 
TSO Table IX


290
 
7-24-1967
 
TSO Table IX


294
 
12-11-1967
 
TSO Table IX


295
 
12-11-1967
 
TSO Table IX


306
 
4-22-1968
 
TSO Table IX


307
 
4-22-1968
 
TSO Table IX


311
 
5-27-1968
 
TSO Table IX


313
 
6-24-1968
 
TSO Table VII


316
 
8-26-1968
 
TSO Table IX


318
 
9-9-1968
 
TSO Table VII


325
 
10-28-1968
 
TSO Table IX


327
 
11-25-1968
 
TSO Table IX


335
 
4-14-1969
 
TSO Table IX


337
 
4-14-1969
 
TSO Table IX


339
 
5-12-1969
 
TSO Table IX


340
 
6-9-1969
 
TSO Table IX


341
 
7-14-1969
 
TSO Table VII


343
 
7-28-1969
 
TSO Table IX


344
 
7-28-1969
 
TSO Table IX


345
 
8-25-1969
 
TSO Table IX


348
 
8-25-1969
 
TSO Table VII


351
 
9-8-1969
 
TSO Table IX


352
 
10-13-1969
 
TSO Table IX


354
 
11-24-1969
 
TSO Table IX


355
 
11-24-1969
 
TSO Table IX


356
 
11-24-1969
 
TSO Table IX


353
 
12-22-1969
 
TSO Table IX


363
 
5-11-1970
 
TSO Table IX


364
 
5-25-1970
 
TSO Table IX


365
 
5-25-1970
 
TSO Table IX


366
 
5-25-1970
 
TSO Table IX


374
 
8-10-1970
 
TSO Table IX


375
 
8-10-1970
 
TSO Table IX


376
 
8-24-1970
 
TSO Table VII


378
 
9-28-1970
 
TSO Table IX


382
 
9-28-1970
 
TSO Table IX


383
 
11-9-1970
 
TSO Table IX


393
 
3-22-1971
 
TSO Table VII


405
 
9-27-1971
 
TSO Table VII


408
 
11-8-1971
 
TSO Table IX


416
 
5-23-1972
 
TSO Table IX


419
 
5-23-1972
 
TSO Table VII


421
 
6-13-1972
 
TSO Table VII


423
 
6-13-1972
 
TSO Table VII


417
 
7-25-1972
 
TSO Table IX


425
 
7-25-1972
 
TSO Table VII


427
 
8-8-1972
 
TSO Table VII


426
 
9-12-1972
 
TSO Table IX


435
 
2-13-1973
 
TSO Table VII


436
 
3-13-1973
 
TSO Table IX


439
 
4-10-1973
 
TSO Table VII


440
 
4-10-1973
 
TSO Table I


442
 
6-12-1973
 
TSO Table VII


469
 
5-13-1975
 
TSO Table VIII


473
 
6-10-1975
 
TSO Table VII


488
 
10-14-1975
 
TSO Table VII


489
 
10-14-1975
 
TSO Table VII


491
 
12-9-1975
 
TSO Table VIII


492
 
1-13-1976
 
TSO Table VII


495
 
1-27-1976
 
TSO Table VIII


496
 
2-10-1976
 
TSO Table VIII


501
 
3-9-1976
 
TSO Table VII


505
 
4-13-1976
 
TSO Table VII


512
 
9-14-1976
 
TSO Table VII


514
 
9-28-1976
 
TSO Table VIII


515
 
9-28-1976
 
TSO Table VII


516
 
10-12-1976
 
TSO Table VIII


517
 
10-12-1976
 
TSO Table VII


522
 
12-28-1976
 
TSO Table VIII


523
 
3-8-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


524
 
3-8-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


525
 
3-8-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


528
 
4-12-1977
 
TSO Table VII


531
 
7-12-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


537
 
7-12-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


539
 
8-9-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


547
 
9-13-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


550
 
10-11-1977
 
TSO Table VIII


556
 
1-10-1978
 
TSO Table VIII


558
 
3-28-1978
 
TSO Table I


562
 
4-11-1978
 
TSO Table VIII


563
 
4-11-1978
 
TSO Table VII


564
 
5-9-1978
 
TSO Table VIII


565
 
5-9-1978
 
TSO Table VII


568
 
8-8-1978
 
TSO Table VIII


571
 
12-26-1978
 
TSO Table VIII


573
 
1-9-1979
 
TSO Table VIII


574
 
2-13-1979
 
TSO Table VIII


575
 
2-13-1979
 
TSO Table VII


576
 
4-12-1979
 
TSO Table V


590
 
1-8-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


592
 
2-12-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


593
 
2-12-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


594
 
2-12-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


595
 
4-8-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


596
 
4-8-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


597
 
4-8-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


598
 
5-13-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


600
 
6-10-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


603
 
7-8-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


606
 
9-9-1980
 
TSO Table VII


611
 
12-9-1980
 
TSO Table VIII


612
 
1-13-1981
 
TSO Table VIII


613
 
1-13-1981
 
TSO Table VIII


616
 
5-12-1981
 
TSO Table II


617
 
5-12-1981
 
TSO Table VIII


618
 
5-12-1981
 
TSO Table VIII


619
 
5-12-1981
 
TSO Table VII


620
 
5-12-1981
 
TSO Table VII


627
 
7-28-1981
 
TSO Table VII


631
 
9-8-1981
 
TSO Table VII


634
 
10-13-1981
 
TSO Table VIII


640
 
11-10-1981
 
TSO Table VIII


643
 
2-22-1982
 
TSO Table VIII


645
 
5-11-1982
 
TSO Table VIII


646
 
5-11-1982
 
TSO Table III


653
 
12-14-1982
 
TSO Table VIII


657
 
3-22-1983
 
TSO Table VI


658
 
4-12-1983
 
TSO Table III


659
 
4-12-1983
 
TSO Table III


661
 
4-12-1983
 
TSO Table VIII


664
 
5-10-1983
 
TSO Table VIII


665
 
6-14-1983
 
TSO Table VIII


669
 
8-9-1983
 
TSO Table III


674
 
10-11-1983
 
TSO Table VII


676
 
11-8-1983
 
TSO Table VIII


677
 
11-8-1983
 
TSO Table VII


678
 
12-27-1983
 
TSO Table VI


-
 
1-12-1984
 
151.01—151.04, 151.15—151.17, 151.30—151.32, 151.45—151.49,
151.60—151.65


689
 
6-26-1984
 
TSO Table VI


690
 
6-26-1984
 
TSO Table VI


691
 
6-26-1984
 
TSO Table VI


693
 
7-24-1984
 
TSO Table V


694
 
8-14-1984
 
TSO Table VII


699
 
10-9-1984
 
TSO Table IX


700
 
10-9-1984
 
TSO Table VIII


702
 
11-13-1984
 
TSO Table IV


703
 
11-27-1984
 
TSO Table IX


704
 
11-27-1984
 
TSO Table IV


707
 
1-8-1985
 
TSO Table IX


710
 
2-12-1985
 
TSO Table VII


711
 
2-26-1985
 
TSO Table VI


715
 
5-28-1985
 
TSO Table VI


717
 
7-9-1985
 
TSO Table VIII


718
 
7-9-1985
 
TSO Table VIII


721
 
9-10-1985
 
TSO Table IX


722
 
9-10-1985
 
TSO Table VII


723
 
9-10-1985
 
TSO Table VII


725
 
11-26-1985
 
TSO Table VI


726
 
12-10-1985
 
TSO Table VIII


727
 
12-12-1985
 
53.075—53.095


733
 
3-11-1986
 
TSO Table VIII


735
 
4-11-1986
 
94.01—94.03, 94.15—94.18, 94.35—94.45


736
 
4-22-1986
 
TSO Table V


738
 
6-10-1986
 
TSO Table VIII


743
 
7-8-1986
 
TSO Table VII


745
 
8-12-1986
 
TSO Table VII


747
 
9-9-1986
 
TSO Table VIII


750
 
10-14-1986
 
TSO Table VIII


754
 
12-9-1986
 
TSO Table VIII


758
 
7-14-1987
 
TSO Table VIII


760
 
8-25-1987
 
TSO Table IX


762
 
9-22-1987
 
TSO Table VIII


763
 
10-13-1987
 
TSO Table IX


766
 
10-27-1987
 
TSO Table VI


768
 
12-8-1987
 
TSO Table IX


765
 
1-1-1988
 
30.33


775
 
4-12-1988
 
TSO Table VIII


777
 
6-14-1988
 
TSO Table IX


778
 
6-14-1988
 
TSO Table VIII


779
 
6-14-1988
 
TSO Table VIII


772
 
6-22-1988
 
94.36, 94.39, 94.44, 94.45


783
 
7-12-1988
 
TSO Table VII


784
 
7-12-1988
 
TSO Table VII


781
 
7-19-1988
 
53.001, 53.015—53.023, 53.035—53.040, 53.055—53.063, 53.110—53.117,
53.150—53.154


786
 
8-23-1988
 
TSO Table IX


790
 
10-11-1988
 
TSO Table VIII


793
 
11-7-1988
 
TSO Table VII


795
 
12-13-1988
 
TSO Table VIII


796
 
12-13-1988
 
TSO Table VIII


800
 
2-14-1989
 
TSO Table IX


801
 
2-22-1989
 
116.01, 116.02, 116.15—116.22, 116.35—116.39


89-02
 
6-13-1989
 
TSO Table VIII


89-03
 
6-13-1989
 
TSO Table VII


8904
 
8-8-1989
 
TSO Table VIII


8905
 
8-8-1989
 
TSO Table VIII


89-08
 
9-12-1989
 
TSO Table VII


89-06
 
9-26-1989
 
154.120


89-07
 
10-31-1989
 
TSO Table VIII


89-10
 
11-2-1989
 
30.33


89-11
 
11-28-1989
 
TSO Table IX


89-12
 
11-28-1989
 
TSO Table IX


89-15
 
1-23-1990
 
30.33


90-16
 
1-23-1990
 
TSO Table VII


90-17
 
3-13-1990
 
93.28


90-18
 
5-8-1990
 
91.25—91.28


90-19
 
5-8-1990
 
50.35—50.39


90-20
 
5-22-1990
 
50.01


89-14
 
6-1-1990
 
111.01—111.07


90-22
 
7-10-1990
 
114.22


90-23
 
7-10-1990
 
150.050—150.054


90-24
 
8-28-1990
 
154.113


90-27
 
9-25-1990
 
TSO Table IX


90-28
 
10-9-1990
 
TSO Table VI


90-29
 
11-27-1990
 
114.22


91-30
 
2-12-1991
 
TSO Table VIII


91-31
 
4-9-1991
 
116.02


91-32
 
4-9-1991
 
TSO Table VIII


91-33
 
5-14-1991
 
TSO Table VIII


91-36
 
7-23-1991
 
TSO Table VI, VII


91-37
 
8-13-1991
 
TSO Table VIII


91-38
 
8-13-1991
 
TSO Table VIII


91-39
 
9-10-1991
 
TSO Table VII


91-40
 
9-10-1991
 
TSO Table VII


91-41
 
10-8-1991
 
TSO Table VIII


91-42
 
10-8-1991
 
TSO Table VII


91-43
 
10-8-1991
 
TSO Table VII


91-44
 
10-22-1991
 
30.33


91-46
 
11-12-1991
 
TSO Table VIII


91-47
 
11-12-1991
 
TSO Table IV, VII


91-48
 
11-12-1991
 
TSO Table VII


91-49
 
11-26-1991
 
TSO Table VII


91-50
 
11-26-1991
 
TSO Table VII


92-52
 
2-25-1992
 
111.08—111.14


92-55
 
3-24-1992
 
TSO Table IX


92-56
 
4-14-1992
 
152.001—152.007, 152.020, 152.021, 152.035—152.044, 152.055—152.058,
152.070—152.075, 152.090—152.096, 152.110—152.114


92-57
 
5-20-1992
 
117.15—117.23


92-58
 
5-26-1992
 
TSO Table III


92-60
 
7-14-1992
 
TSO Table VIII


92-61
 
7-14-1992
 
TSO Table VII


92-62
 
8-11-1992
 
TSO Table VIII


92-65
 
8-25-1992
 
TSO Table VII


92-68
 
10-13-1992
 
TSO Table VII


92-63
 
10-27-1992
 
Ch. 74 Schd. I


92-64
 
10-27-1992
 
TSO Table VI


92-69
 
11-10-1992
 
TSO Table VIII


92-71
 
11-10-1992
 
TSO Table VIII


92-72
 
11-10-1992
 
TSO Table VII


92-73
 
12-8-1992
 
TSO Table IX


93-74
 
2-9-1993
 
TSO Table VIII


93-75
 
3-23-1993
 
TSO Table IX


93-76
 
3-23-1993
 
112.001, 112.015


93-77
 
4-13-1993
 
TSO Table VIII


93-79
 
4-13-1993
 
TSO Table IX


93-80
 
5-11-1993
 
52.02


93-81
 
5-25-1993
 
TSO Table VI


93-82
 
6-8-1993
 
52.02


93-83
 
6-8-1993
 
TSO Table VII


93-84
 
6-8-1993
 
TSO Table VIII


93-85
 
6-8-1993
 
TSO Table VIII


93-86
 
6-8-1993
 
TSO Table VI


93-88
 
7-13-1993
 
TSO Table VIII


93-89
 
7-13-1993
 
TSO Table VIII


93-90
 
8-10-1993
 
TSO Table IX


93-91
 
9-28-1993
 
TSO Table IX


93-92
 
10-12-1993
 
TSO Table VII


93-93
 
10-12-1993
 
TSO Table VIII


93-94
 
10-26-1993
 
30.33


93-96
 
12-28-1993
 
31.23


94-97
 
1-11-1994
 
TSO Table VIII


94-98
 
1-11-1994
 
TSO Table VII


94-99
 
2-8-1994
 
TSO Table VIII


94-100
 
2-8-1994
 
TSO Table VIII


94-102
 
2-22-1994
 
96.01


94-103
 
2-22-1994
 
TSO Table IX


94-104
 
3-8-1994
 
118.01—118.05, 118.07


94-107
 
4-12-1994
 
TSO Table VII


94-109
 
5-10-1994
 
TSO Table VI


94-110
 
5-10-1994
 
TSO Table IX


94-111
 
6-14-1994
 
TSO Table VIII


94-113
 
6-14-1994
 
TSO Table IX


94-114
 
7-12-1994
 
TSO Table VIII


94-115
 
7-12-1994
 
TSO Table VII


94-116
 
8-9-1994
 
TSO Table VII


94-117
 
9-13-1994
 
TSO Table VI


94-118
 
9-13-1994
 
TSO Table VIII


94-121
 
11-7-1994
 
150.018


94-122
 
11-7-1994
 
TSO Table IX


94-123
 
11-7-1994
 
TSO Table VII


94-124
 
11-7-1994
 
TSO Table VII


94-127
 
12-12-1994
 
TSO Table VIII


94-126
 
12-27-1994
 
TSO Table IX


94-128
 
12-27-1994
 
TSO Table VII


95-132
 
2-14-1995
 
116.02


95-133
 
2-14-1995
 
130.24


95-134
 
2-14-1995
 
TSO Table III


94-128
 
2-17-1995
 
TSO Table VII


95-131
 
2-28-1995
 
TSO Table V


95-130
 
3-14-1995
 
TSO Table III


95-135
 
3-14-1995
 
TSO Table III


95-137
 
3-28-1995
 
TSO Table VIII


95-138
 
3-28-1995
 
TSO Table VIII


95-139
 
3-28-1995
 
TSO Table VIII


95-140
 
3-28-1995
 
112.091


95-141
 
4-11-1995
 
30.15


95-143
 
4-11-1995
 
TSO Table VIII


95-144
 
4-25-1995
 
112.016


95-146
 
4-25-1995
 
112.085


95-147
 
5-9-1995
 
TSO Table IX


95-150
 
6-12-1995
 
72.12


95-152
 
6-27-1995
 
TSO Table VI


95-153
 
7-11-1995
 
31.25


95-154
 
7-11-1995
 
TSO Table VII


466
 
7-15-1995
 
153.001—153.008, 153.020, 153.021, 153.035—153.039, 153.050, 153.051,
153.065—153.083, 153.100—153.103


95-157
 
8-8-1995
 
TSO Table IX


95-158
 
9-12-1995
 
TSO Table VI


95-160
 
10-10-1995
 
TSO Table IX


95-159
 
10-24-1995
 
TSO Table VIII


464
 
1- -1996
 
154.001—154.004, 154.015—154.026, 154.040—154.042, 154.055—154.070,
154.085—154.098, 154.110—154.125, 154.155—154.159, 154.170—154.177,
154.182


95-163
 
1-9-1996
 
TSO Table VIII


95-162
 
2-27-1996
 
120.01, 120.02, 120.15—120.22, 120.35—120.45


96-165
 
3-26-1996
 
119.01—119.07


96-166
 
4-9-1996
 
TSO Table VI


96-167
 
6-10-1996
 
154.004, 154.063, 154.064, 154.067, 154.068


96-168
 
6-10-1996
 
154.065


96-169
 
7-9-1996
 
152.007, 152.037


96-170
 
8-13-1996
 
153.005


96-171
 
9-10-1996
 
TSO Table VI


96-172
 
9-10-1996
 
112.088


96-173
 
9-10-1996
 
30.30


96-174
 
9-10-1996
 
TSO Table VIII


96-175
 
9-10-1996
 
TSO Table VII


96-176
 
9-10-1996
 
TSO Table VII


96-177
 
10-8-1996
 
TSO Table IX


96-178
 
10-8-1996
 
TSO Table VIII


96-179
 
10-8-1996
 
TSO Table VII


96-180
 
10-22-1996
 
72.10


96-181
 
10-22-1996
 
TSO Table III


96-182
 
11-12-1996
 
154.063


96-185
 
12-10-1996
 
153.073


96-186
 
12-10-1996
 
154.004


97-188
 
3-11-1997
 
TSO Table III


97-189
 
4-8-1997
 
31.21


97-190
 
4-8-1997
 
TSO Table VII


97-191
 
4-8-1997
 
TSO Table VIII


97-192
 
4-8-1997
 
154.060


97-193
 
4-22-1997
 
TSO Table VI


97-194
 
5-13-1997
 
TSO Table IX


97-195
 
5-13-1997
 
154.057, 154.182


97-196
 
6-9-1997
 
TSO Table III


97-197
 
7-8-1997
 
52.06


97-198
 
7-8-1997
 
TSO Table VIII


97-199
 
7-8-1997
 
TSO Table VII


97-201
 
8-12-1997
 
TSO Table IX


97-202
 
8-12-1997
 
TSO Table VII


97-203
 
8-12-1997
 
TSO Table III


97-204
 
8-26-1997
 
31.21


97-205
 
9-9-1997
 
73.36, Ch. 74 Schd. II


97-206
 
9-9-1997
 
TSO Table VIII


97-207
 
9-9-1997
 
TSO Table VIII


97-208
 
10-14-1997
 
90.03


97-209
 
10-14-1997
 
TSO Table VIII


97-210
 
10-14-1997
 
TSO Table VIII


97-211
 
10-14-1997
 
154.086


97-212
 
11-10-1997
 
TSO Table VIII


97-213
 
11-25-1997
 
112.072, 112.088, 112.090, 112.121


97-214
 
12-9-1997
 
TSO Table VII


97-215
 
1-13-1998
 
TSO Table IX


97-216
 
1-13-1998
 
154.056


98-217
 
2-10-1998
 
112.001, 112.016, 112.023, 112.025, 112.040, 112.041, 112.085, 112.088,
112.092


98-218
 
3-10-1998
 
TSO Table VII


98-219
 
3-10-1998
 
154.057, 154.059, 154.182


98-220
 
4-14-1998
 
113.01—113.13, 113.33


98-221
 
4-14-1998
 
114.35—114.38


98-222
 
5-12-1998
 
TSO Table VII


98-223
 
5-12-1998
 
154.085—154.098


98-224
 
5-12-1998
 
154.004


98-225
 
6-9-1998
 
117.35—117.41


98-227
 
6-9-1998
 
TSO Table VIII


98-228
 
6-9-1998
 
TSO Table VIII


98-229
 
6-9-1998
 
154.182


98-226
 
7-14-1998
 
TSO Table IX


98-231
 
8-11-1998
 
TSO Table VIII


98-232
 
8-11-1998
 
TSO Table VII


98-233
 
8-11-1998
 
TSO Table VIII


98-236
 
9-8-1998
 
TSO Table VII


98-237
 
9-8-1998
 
154.060


98-238
 
10-13-1998
 
TSO Table VII


98-239
 
10-13-1998
 
TSO Table VII


98-240
 
10-13-1998
 
TSO Table VII


98-241
 
10-13-1998
 
154.182


98-242
 
11-24-1998
 
150.001


98-243
 
12-8-1998
 
TSO Table VI


98-244
 
12-8-1998
 
TSO Table VIII


98-245
 
1-12-1999
 
154.004


99-246
 
2-9-1999
 
TSO Table VII


99-247
 
3-2-1999
 
96.01


99-248
 
3-2-1999
 
TSO Table VIII


99-249
 
3-2-1999
 
154.182


99-250
 
4-13-1999
 
TSO Table VII


99-251
 
5-11-1999
 
153.051


99-252
 
5-11-1999
 
TSO Table VIII


99-253
 
5-11-1999
 
94.20


99-254
 
6-8-1999
 
TSO Table VII


99-255
 
6-8-1999
 
TSO Table VIII


99-256
 
6-8-1999
 
TSO Table VII


99-257
 
6-8-1999
 
TSO Table VII


99-258
 
6-22-1999
 
150.001


99-259
 
7-13-1999
 
TSO Table VIII


99-260
 
7-13-1999
 
TSO Table VIII


99-262
 
7-27-1999
 
TSO Table VI


99-263
 
8-10-1999
 
TSO Table VII


99-264
 
10-12-1999
 
94.44


99-265
 
11-9-1999
 
TSO Table VIII


00-266
 
1-25-2000
 
94.19


00-267
 
2-8-2000
 
TSO Table VIII


00-268
 
3-14-2000
 
TSO Table VIII


00-270
 
4-25-2000
 
TSO Table VI


00-271
 
5-9-2000
 
TSO Table IX


00-278
 
5-9-2000
 
TSO Table VI


00-273
 
5-23-2000
 
TSO Table VII


00-274
 
6-12-2000
 
TSO Table VIII


00-275
 
6-12-2000
 
TSO Table VIII


00-276
 
6-12-2000
 
TSO Table VIII


00-277
 
6-27-2000
 
TSO Table VII


00-279
 
7-11-2000
 
TSO Table VII


00-280
 
7-25-2000
 
112.016


00-281
 
8-8-2000
 
TSO Table IX


00-282
 
9-11-2000
 
TSO Table VII


00-283
 
9-11-2000
 
TSO Table V


2000-285
 
10-10-2000
 
150.001


00-286
 
12-12-2000
 
154.004, 154.119


00-287
 
12-12-2000
 
TSO Table VIII


01-289
 
1-23-2001
 
53.130—53.139


01-290
 
2-27-2001
 
71.10


01-291
 
5-22-2001
 
53.017, 53.036, 53.150


01-292
 
5-22-2001
 
TSO Table VI


01-293
 
6-12-2001
 
TSO Table III


01-294
 
6-12-2001
 
TSO Table III


01-295
 
6-12-2001
 
TSO Table III


01-296
 
8-14-2001
 
154.140—154.144


01-297
 
9-11-2001
 
154.004


01-298
 
9-11-2001
 
154.056, 154.057


01-300
 
10-9-2001
 
TSO Table IX


01-301
 
10-9-2001
 
TSO Table IX


01-302
 
10-9-2001
 
TSO Table VII


02-305
 
2-12-2002
 
TSO Table VIII


02-306
 
2-12-2002
 
TSO Table VIII


01-304
 
3-26-2002
 
154.071


02-307
 
3-26-2002
 
150.001


02-309
 
3-26-2002
 
112.086


02-311
 
4-23-2002
 
30.03


02-312
 
5-14-2002
 
TSO Table IX


02-308
 
5-28-2002
 
132.20—132.24


02-314
 
5-28-2002
 
TSO Table VIII


02-315
 
- -2002
 
TSO Table III


02-316
 
6-11-2002
 
130.08, 130.99


02-317
 
- -2002
 
130.03, 130.07


02-318
 
6-11-2002
 
TSO Table VII


02-319
 
7-9-2002
 
TSO Table VII


02-320
 
9-24-2002
 
TSO Table VII


02-321
 
10-8-2002
 
154.118


02-322
 
10-22-2002
 
TSO Table III


02-323
 
11-12-2002
 
TSO Table IX


02-324
 
11-12-2002
 
TSO Table VIII


02-326
 
12-23-2002
 
30.17, 30.18


02-328
 
1-2-2003
 
TSO Table VI


02-327
 
1-14-2003
 
153.050, 153.065


02-329
 
1-14-2003
 
TSO Table VIII


02-330
 
1-14-2003
 
TSO Table III


02-332
 
2-11-2003
 
TSO Table III


03-331
 
2-11-2003
 
TSO Table VII


02-333
 
3-11-2003
 
TSO Table VIII


03-335
 
3-11-2003
 
154.086


03-336
 
3-25-2003
 
153.085


03-334
 
4-8-2003
 
154.004, 154.142


03-338
 
4-8-2003
 
154.142, 154.143


03-340
 
- -2003
 
111.01—111.14


03-341
 
5-13-2003
 
150.001, 150.015—150.020, 150.050—150.054


03-343
 
5-27-2003
 
TSO Table III


02-339
 
6-10-2003
 
TSO Table VIII


03-344
 
6-24-2003
 
TSO Table VI


03-345
 
7-8-2003
 
TSO Table VII


03-346
 
7-8-2003
 
TSO Table VII


03-350
 
7-22-2003
 
TSO Table VI


03-348
 
7-23-2003
 
TSO Table III


03-349
 
8-12-2003
 
TSO Table III


03-351
 
8-12-2003
 
96.01


03-352
 
8-12-2003
 
132.20—132.24


03-353
 
8-26-2003
 
TSO Table III


03-354
 
9-9-2003
 
TSO Table IX


03-355
 
9-9-2003
 
TSO Table VIII


03-356
 
10-14-2003
 
TSO Table VIII


03-357
 
10-14-2003
 
154.063


03-360
 
11-12-2003
 
TSO Table IX


03-362
 
12-10-2003
 
TSO Table VII


03-363
 
12-10-2003
 
TSO Table VII


03-364
 
1-2-2004
 
TSO Table III


03-367
 
2-10-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


04-370
 
3-9-2004
 
130.08, 130.99


04-371
 
4-13-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


04-373
 
4-13-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


03-361
 
5-25-2004
 
156.01—156.10


04-374
 
5-25-2004
 
TSO Table III


04-376
 
6-8-2004
 
TSO Table VI


04-377
 
6-8-2004
 
TSO Table VII


04-379
 
6-8-2004
 
154.056


04-383
 
7-13-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


04-384
 
7-27-2004
 
112.016


04-382
 
8-10-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


04-385
 
8-24-2004
 
TSO Table VII


04-386
 
9-14-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


04-387
 
9-14-2004
 
TSO Table VI


-
 
11-9-2004
 
73.20


04-390
 
11-9-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


04-388
 
11-23-2004
 
TSO Table III


04-391
 
11-23-2004
 
TSO Table III


04-392
 
11-23-2004
 
91.41


04-395
 
12-14-2004
 
TSO Table VII


04-396
 
12-14-2004
 
TSO Table VIII


04-399
 
1-11-2005
 
30.33


04-380
 
2-23-2005
 
TSO Table IX


04-381
 
4-6-2005
 
TSO Table VIII


05-400
 
4-12-2005
 
53.113


05-401
 
4-12-2005
 
TSO Table VI


05-402
 
4-12-2005
 
TSO Table VII


05-0403
 
5-10-2005
 
154.063


05-0404
 
5-10-2005
 
TSO Table VIII


05-0405
 
5-10-2005
 
TSO Table VII


05-04-07
 
6-14-2005
 
TSO Table VII


05-0406
 
6-14-2005
 
TSO Table VIII


05-0408
 
6-14-2005
 
TSO Table VI


05-0409
 
6-14-2005
 
TSO Table VIII


05-0412
 
8-23-2005
 
94.36, 94.40, 94.44


05-0419
 
11-8-2005
 
TSO Table VIII


05-0420
 
11-8-2005
 
154.123


05-0423
 
11-8-2005
 
TSO Table IX


05-0421
 
11-22-2005
 
32.30—32.34


05-0426
 
12-13-2005
 
TSO Table VIII


05-0425
 
1-10-2006
 
TSO Table VI


05-0428
 
1-10-2006
 
TSO Table VI


06-0427
 
2-14-2006
 
TSO Table VIII


05-0424
 
2-28-2006
 
154.004, 154.056, 154.057


06-0428
 
3-14-2006
 
TSO Table III


06-0429
 
3-14-2006
 
TSO Table VIII


06-0431
 
3-14-2006
 
31.29


06-0435
 
5-9-2006
 
TSO Table VII


06-0436
 
5-22-2006
 
TSO Table III


06-0433
 
7-11-2006
 
154.142


06-0442
 
8-8-2006
 
120.01, 120.02, 120.15—120.22, 120.35—120.52


06-0444
 
9-13-2006
 
TSO Table VII


06-0445
 
10-16-2006
 
TSO Table VII


06-0446
 
11-14-2006
 
TSO Table VII


06-0447
 
11-14-2006
 
154.064


06-0448
 
12-12-2006
 
TSO Table VII


06-0449
 
12-26-2006
 
113.25—113.33


07-0451
 
1-9-2007
 
154.004, 154.067


07-0452
 
1-9-2007
 
154.024


07-0454
 
2-13-2007
 
TSO Table VII


07-0455
 
2-13-2007
 
TSO Table VII


07-0458
 
3-13-2007
 
TSO Table VIII


07-0459
 
3-13-2007
 
154.004, 154.026, 154.056—154.059


07-0462
 
4-24-2007
 
54.001—54.004, 54.020—54.023, 54.035—54.042, 54.055—54.057,
54.070—54.073, 54.085—54.088, 54.999


07-0463
 
6-12-2007
 
154.027


07-0461
 
6-26-2007
 
TSO Table VII


07-0464
 
7-10-2007
 
31.29


07-0465
 
7-10-2007
 
154.022


07-0466
 
7-24-2007
 
150.001


07-0467
 
8-14-2007
 
154.067


07-0469
 
8-28-2007
 
96.01


07-0468
 
9-11-2007
 
154.158


07-0472
 
9-11-2007
 
TSO Table VII


07-0478
 
10-9-2007
 
TSO Table VII


07-0480
 
11-13-2007
 
TSO Table VII


07-0481
 
11-13-2007
 
TSO Table VII


07-0484
 
11-27-2007
 
TSO Table IX


07-0485
 
12-11-2007
 
154.175


07-0486
 
12-11-2007
 
TSO Table VI


07-0487
 
12-11-2007
 
113.25—113.33


07-0489
 
12-27-2007
 
30.18


08-0490
 
1-8-2008
 
TSO Table VIII


08-0491
 
1-8-2008
 
TSO Table VIII


08-0492
 
2-12-2008
 
TSO Table VIII


07-0482
 
2-26-2008
 
122.01—122.18, 122.99


08-0496
 
3-11-2008
 
154.057


08-0497
 
3-25-2008
 
54.035—54.042


08-0498
 
3-25-2008
 
72.06


08-0499
 
4-22-2008
 
150.065


08-0500
 
5-13-2008
 
157.01—157.07, Ch. 157 App. A


08-0501
 
5-13-2008
 
112.059


08-0502
 
5-27-2008
 
TSO Table VI


08-0505
 
6-10-2008
 
TSO Table IX


08-0506
 
7-8-2008
 
TSO Table VII


08-0507
 
7-22-2008
 
154.072


08-0509
 
9-10-2008
 
30.30


08-0512
 
10-14-2008
 
TSO Table VI


08-0513
 
11-12-2008
 
TSO Table VIII


08-0514
 
11-12-2008
 
153.039, 153.050


08-0515
 
11-12-2008
 
154.118


08-0516
 
11-12-2008
 
154.064


08-0517
 
11-12-2008
 
30.18


08-0518
 
12-9-2008
 
TSO Table VII


08-0519
 
12-9-2008
 
TSO Table VIII


08-0520
 
12-23-2008
 
31.29


09-0522
 
3-10-2009
 
TSO Table IX


09-0525
 
4-14-2009
 
TSO Table VI


09-0526
 
4-14-2009
 
TSO Table VIII


09-0527
 
4-14-2009
 
TSO Table VIII


09-0528
 
4-14-2009
 
154.071


09-0524
 
4-28-2009
 
31.20


09-0529
 
4-28-2009
 
TSO Table IX


09-0530
 
5-26-2009
 
31.30


09-0531
 
8-11-2009
 
TSO Table III


09-0532
 
8-11-2009
 
154.119


09-0533
 
9-8-2009
 
TSO Table VII


09-0521
 
9-22-2009
 
130.24, 130.36—130.43, 130.99


09-0534
 
10-27-2009
 
TSO Table IV


09-0535
 
10-27-2009
 
TSO Table VI


09-0536
 
12-22-2009
 
72.15


09-0537
 
12-22-2009
 
TSO Table III


09-0538
 
12-22-2009
 
31.29


10-0540
 
2-22-2010
 
90.03


10-0541
 
3-9-2010
 
TSO Table IX


10-0542
 
3-9-2010
 
TSO Table VI


10-0543
 
4-13-2010
 
TSO Table VIII


10-0545
 
4-13-2010
 
TSO Table V


10-0544
 
4-27-2010
 
TSO Table IX


10-0547
 
5-11-2010
 
TSO Table VIII


10-0549
 
6-8-2010
 
TSO Table III


10-0551
 
6-22-2010
 
31.30


10-0550
 
7-13-2010
 
TSO Table III


10-0552
 
8-10-2010
 
TSO Table VIII


10-0553
 
8-24-2010
 
TSO Table VI


10-0555
 
9-14-2010
 
TSO Table VIII


10-0556
 
9-14-2010
 
54.002


10-0558
 
9-14-2010
 
112.088


10-0557
 
9-28-2010
 
152.007, 152.041, 152.113


10-0660
 
10-12-2010
 
31.30


10-0661
 
10-12-2010
 
154.004, 154.141, 154.143


10-0662
 
11-23-2010
 
TSO Table VI


10-0663
 
12-14-2010
 
154.118


11-0664
 
1-11-2011
 
TSO Table III


11-0665
 
1-11-2011
 
TSO Table VIII


11-0667
 
4-12-2011
 
54.005


11-0666
 
4-26-2011
 
154.004, 154.142


11-0668
 
5-10-2011
 
154.004, 154.064, 154.067, 154.068, 155.03, 155.05


11-0669
 
6-14-2011
 
TSO Table III


11-0670
 
7-12-2011
 
92.070, 92.072


11-0671
 
7-12-2011
 
154.004


11-0672
 
7-12-2011
 
154.172


11-0673
 
7-26-2011
 
94.39


11-0675
 
8-9-2011
 
30.18


11-0678
 
9-13-2011
 
TSO Table VI


11-0680
 
10-25-2011
 
34.01—34.13


11-0681
 
11-8-2011
 
TSO Table IX


12-0682
 
1-24-2012
 
TSO Table VI


12-0683
 
2-14-2012
 
154.067


12-0686
 
3-27-2012
 
30.03


12-0689
 
7-10-2012
 
154.063


12-0690
 
7-10-2012
 
154.004, 154.064


12-0691
 
7-10-2012
 
31.20, 31.21, 31.23, 31.25, 31.26


12-0685
 
7-24-2012
 
92.043, 92.999


12-0684
 
8-14-2012
 
52.12, 52.13


12-0693
 
9-11-2012
 
TSO Table VII


12-0694
 
9-11-2012
 
TSO Table VII


12-0697
 
11-13-2012
 
TSO Table VI


12-698
 
11-27-2012
 
95.03, 95.04


12-699
 
12-11-2012
 
31.27


12-700
 
12-11-2012
 
113.33


12-0701
 
1-8-2013
 
90.01


13-702
 
1-22-2013
 
94.01—94.03, 94.15—94.20, 94.35—94.45


13-703
 
2-12-2013
 
73.20


13-0704
 
3-26-2013
 
123.01—123.04, 123.99


13-0705
 
4-9-2013
 
93.01—93.04, 93.15—93.28, 93.40—93.44


13-706
 
4-23-2013
 
154.004


13-0707
 
5-14-2013
 
TSO Table VII


13-0709
 
6-11-2013
 
TSO Table IV, VII


13-0711
 
6-25-2013
 
TSO Table III


13-0710
 
7-9-2013
 
154.004, 154.026, 154.056, 154.057


13-0713
 
8-13-2013
 
TSO Table III


13-714
 
8-27-2013
 
TSO Table VIII


13-716
 
9-10-2013
 
32.04


13-717
 
9-10-2013
 
112.121


13-718
 
9-24-2013
 
111.02


13-715
 
11-26-2013
 
Charter §§ 5.02, 13.03


14-0722
 
3-11-2014
 
53.076—53.078


14-0723
 
4-8-2014
 
154.067


14-726
 
5-27-2014
 
TSO Table III


14-727
 
5-27-2014
 
TSO Table III


14-724
 
6-10-2014
 
Charter §§ 5.02, 5.03


14-728
 
6-10-2014
 
Charter § 2.05


14-0729
 
6-10-2014
 
154.085—154.096, 154.999


14-0731
 
8-12-2014
 
112.135—112.140


14-0732
 
9-9-2014
 
TSO Table VIII


14-0733
 
9-9-2014
 
154.062—154.066


14-0734
 
10-28-2014
 
112.056


14-0735
 
10-28-2014
 
112.025


15-0737
 
3-24-2015
 
54.002, 54.038, 54.070


15-0738
 
5-12-2015
 
157.06


15-0739
 
5-5-2015
 
TSO Table III


15-0740
 
5-5-2015
 
TSO Table III


15-0741
 
7-28-2015
 
90.03, 90.04, 92.035—92.043


15-0742
 
6-9-2015
 
Ch. 74, Sch. I, II


15-0743
 
6-9-2015
 
31.27


15-0744
 
9-8-2015
 
112.001, 112.088, 112.094, 112.135, 112.141


15-745
 
9-8-2015
 
73.45—73.48


15-747
 
9-22-2015
 
TSO Table V


15-0748
 
12-22-2015
 
Adopting Ordinance


16-750
 
2-9-2016
 
154.062—154.066


16-751
 
2-9-2016
 
154.004, 154.026, 154.056, 154.061—154.069, 154.123


16-752
 
2-9-2016
 
TSO Table VI


16-753
 
2-23-2016
 
TSO Table VI


16-754
 
3-8-2016
 
30.33


16-755
 
3-8-2016
 
Charter § 2.04


16-756
 
4-12-2016
 
TSO Table VIII


16-0757
 
4-26-2016
 
54.038


16-758
 
6-28-2016
 
Charter §§ 3.01, 4.011, 4.02, 7.05, 7.06, 10.01


16-0759
 
7-12-2016
 
154.119


16-760
 
6-14-2016
 
TSO Table VIII


16-762
 
8-9-2016
 
TSO Table III


16-0763
 
8-23-2016
 
154.026


16-766
 
12-13-2016
 
TSO Table VI


16-767
 
4-11-2017
 
154.115


16-0768
 
1-10-2017
 
TSO Table VII


17-771
 
7-1-2017
 
112.088


17-773
 
6-27-2017
 
54.003, 54.038, 54.055


17-774
 
6-27-2017
 
TSO Table VI


17-775
 
6-27-2017
 
TSO Table VI


17-776
 
9-12-2017
 
154.141


17-777
 
10-10-2017
 
93.01, 93.18, 95.05


17-779
 
10-24-2017
 
TSO Table VI


 
 
 
 
 




 



 


