
Ankeny, IA, Iowa Code of Ordinances


GENERAL CODE PROVISIONS



CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES



 

1.01  Title
 
1.08  Amendments


1.02  Definitions
 
1.09  Catchlines and Notes


1.03  City Powers
 
1.10  Altering Code


1.04  Indemnity
 
1.11  Severability


1.05  Personal Injuries
 
1.12  Warrants


1.06  Rules of Construction
 
1.13  General Standards for Action


1.07  Extension of Authority
 
1.14  Standard Penalty








1.01  TITLE.



This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Ankeny, Iowa.



1.02  DEFINITIONS.



Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of
the Council or repugnant to the context of the provision.  Other words and
phrases used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined
otherwise in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or
repugnant to the context of the provision:



1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street,
affording secondary means of access to abutting property. 



2.   “City” means the City of Ankeny, Iowa.



3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Ankeny, Iowa.



4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in
which a specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such
as the Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).



5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ankeny, Iowa.



6.   “Council” means the city council of Ankeny, Iowa.



7.   “County” means Polk County, Iowa.



8.   “May” confers a power.



9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.



10.   “Must” states a requirement.



11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land,
includes any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.



12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Ankeny, Iowa,
as embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the
ordinance adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.



13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or
foreign corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust,
or other legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.



14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway,
highway, sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.



15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.



16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the
edge of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property
line, intended for the use of pedestrians.



17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.



18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of
Iowa, as amended.



19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between
property lines of every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof
is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular traffic.



Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.



1.03  CITY POWERS.



The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any
power and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve
the rights, privileges and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and
convenience of its residents and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)



1.04  INDEMNITY.



The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however
arising from or related to, directly, indirectly or remotely, the issuance of
the permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of
such applicant, or the agents, employees or servants of such applicant, to
abide by or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or
the terms and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by
making such application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its
officers, agents and employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and
all claims, demands, lawsuits or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage,
injury or death, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason
of the foregoing.  The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a
part of any permit or license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any
other ordinance of the City whether expressly recited therein or not.



1.05  PERSONAL INJURIES.



When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused.  The notice shall state
the pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location
of the court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged
facts from which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person
notified is liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and
asking the person to appear and defend.  A judgment obtained in the suit is
conclusive in any action by the City against any person so notified, as to
the existence of the defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the
liability of the City to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to
the amount of the damage or injury.  The City may maintain an action against
the person notified to recover the amount of the judgment together with all
the expenses incurred by the City in the suit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)



1.06  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.



In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized
to ascertain the intent of the Council with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.



1.07  EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.



Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.



1.08  AMENDMENTS.



All ordinances which amend, repeal or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)



1.09  CATCHLINES AND NOTES.



The catchlines of the several sections of the Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross
references and State law references, unless set out in the body of the
section itself, contained in the Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any
part of the law, and are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or
clarify the contents of a section.



1.10  ALTERING CODE.



It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of the Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code of
Ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to
be misrepresented thereby.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.5)



1.11  SEVERABILITY.



If any section, provision, or part of the Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity
of the Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision or part
thereof not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.



1.12  WARRANTS.



If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon
or conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant.  No owner, operator or occupant or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.



1.13  GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.



Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard:  The discretionary power to
grant, deny or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts
and circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.



1.14  STANDARD PENALTY.



The penalty for violation of a City ordinance shall be the same penalty as
for a simple misdemeanor.  Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted
to exist constitutes a repeat offense.



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2])



CHAPTER 2
CHARTER



 

2.01  Title
 
2.04  Number and Term of Council


2.02  Form of Government
 
2.05  Term of Mayor


2.03  Powers and Duties of City Officers
 
2.06  Copies on File



 



2.01  TITLE.



This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Ankeny, Iowa. 1



2.02  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.



The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)



2.03  POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.



The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.



2.04  NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.



The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)



2.05  TERM OF MAYOR.



The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)



2.06  COPIES ON FILE.



The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep
copies of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)



 


Notes

1 
† EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 521 adopting a charter for the City was
passed and approved by the Council in 1975.



CHAPTER 3
VOTING PRECINCTS



 



3.01  Voting Precincts Established
 
3.10  Precinct Number Nine


3.02  Precinct Number One
 
3.11  Precinct Number Ten


3.03 Precinct Number Two
 
3.12  Precinct Number Eleven


3.04  Precinct Number Three
 
3.13  Precinct Number Twelve (Town and Country)


3.05  Precinct Number Four
 
3.14  Precinct Number Thirteen (Town and Country)


3.06  Precinct Number Five
 
3.15  Precinct Number Fourteen


3.07  Precinct Number Six
 
3.16  Precinct Number Fifteen


3.08 Precinct Number Seven (Town and Country)
 
3.17  Polling Places


3.09  Precinct Number Eight
 




 



3.01  VOTING PRECINCTS ESTABLISHED.



For the purpose of best serving the convenience of the voters, there are
established election precincts within the City for elections after January
15, 2012.



3.02  PRECINCT NUMBER ONE.



Election Precinct Number One is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of NE 36th Street and N. Ankeny Boulevard;
thence east to the intersection of NE 36th Street and NE Delaware Avenue;
thence south to the intersection of NE Delaware and NE 18th Street; thence
east to the corporate limits at Interstate Highway 35; thence clockwise
following the corporate limit to the centerline of NE 18th Street (County NE
102nd Avenue); thence counter-clockwise following the corporate limits to the
centerline of N. Ankeny Boulevard (State Highway 69); thence south to the
point of beginning, the intersection of NE 36th Street and N Ankeny Blvd.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 2,718



3.03  PRECINCT NUMBER TWO.



Election Precinct Number Two is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of NW 36th Street and N. Ankeny Boulevard
(State Highway 69); thence west to the intersection of NW 36th Street and NW
Ash Drive; thence south to the intersection of NW Ash Drive and NW Georgetown
Boulevard; thence east along the centerline of NW Georgetown Boulevard to the
intersection of NW Georgetown Boulevard and N. Ankeny Boulevard; thence south
to the intersection of N. Ankeny Boulevard and NE 18th Street; thence east to
the intersection of NE 18th Street and NE Delaware Avenue; thence north to
the intersection of NE Delaware Avenue and NE 36th Street; thence west to the
point of beginning, the intersection of NE 36th Street and N. Ankeny
Boulevard.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,010.



3.04  PRECINCT NUMBER THREE.



Election Precinct Number Three is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of NE 18th Street and NE Trilein Drive; thence
east to the intersection of NE 18th Street and Interstate Highway 35; thence
south along the east Right-of-Way line of Interstate Highway 35 to the
corporate limit line; thence clockwise along the corporate limit line to the
centerline of E. 1st Street; thence west to NE Trilein Drive; thence north
along the centerline of NE Trilein Drive to the point of beginning, the
intersection of NE Trilein Drive and NE 18th Street.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 2,671.



3.05  PRECINCT NUMBER FOUR.



Election Precinct Number Four is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of E. 1st Street and NE Trilein Drive; thence
north along the centerline of NE Trilein Drive to its intersection with NE
18th Street; thence west to the west edge of census block GEOID
191530102051001; thence south to the north boundary of GEOID 191530102051003;
thence counter-clockwise on the boundary of GEOID 191530102051003 to the west
boundary of GEOID 191530102051000; thence south along the east boundary of
GEOID 191530102051002 to its intersection with NW 9th Street; thence south to
the centerline of NW 9th Street; thence west along the centerline of NW 9th
Street to the centerline of NW Ash Drive; thence south to the northwest
corner of census block GEOID 191530102051016; thence south along the west
edge of census block GEOID 191530102051016 to the centerline of W. 1st
Street; thence west to the centerline of the Union Pacific Railroad
Right-of-Way; thence southeast along the railway to its intersection with SW
Maple Street; thence south on SW Maple Street to the centerline of SW Third
Street; thence east to the centerline of SW Cherry Street; thence north to
the centerline of West 1st Street; thence east to the point of beginning, the
intersection of East 1st Street and NE Trilein.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,354



3.06  PRECINCT NUMBER FIVE.



Election Precinct Number Five is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of East 1st Street and SE Delaware Avenue;
thence south to the centerline of SE Peterson Drive; thence west to the
centerline of SE Trilein Drive; thence south to the centerline of SE Magazine
Road; thence west to the centerline of South Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway
69); thence north to the centerline of the Union Pacific Railroad
Right-of-Way; thence northwest along the Railroad Right-of-Way to the
centerline of SW Cherry Street; thence north to the centerline of West 1st
Street; thence east to the point of beginning, the intersection of East 1st
Street and SE Delaware Avenue.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,493



3.07  PRECINCT NUMBER SIX.



Election Precinct Number Six is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of East 1st Street and SE Delaware Avenue;
thence east to the centerline of SE Frisk Drive; thence clockwise following
the corporate limit line to the centerline of SE Magazine Road (County Road
NE 86th Avenue); thence west to the centerline of SE Trilein Drive; thence
north to the centerline of SE Peterson Drive; thence east to the centerline
of SE Delaware Avenue; thence north to the point of beginning, the
intersection of East 1st Street and SE Delaware Avenue.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,183



3.08  PRECINCT NUMBER SEVEN (TOWN AND COUNTRY).



Election Precinct Number Seven is that part of the City and including a small
unincorporated area, lying within the following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of South Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway 69) and
SE Magazine Road; thence east along the centerline of SE Magazine Road to the
east corporate limit line; thence clockwise along the corporate limit
boundary to its intersection with SE 54th Street (County Road NE 70th
Avenue); thence west to the west boundary line of census block GEOID
191530102031074; thence clockwise along the corporate limit line to the west
Right-of-Way line of the westernmost Union Pacific Railroad line; thence
north along said line to the centerline of SE Oralabor Road; thence west
along the centerline of SE Oralabor Road to the centerline of South Ankeny
Boulevard (US Highway 69); thence north to the point of beginning, the
intersection of South Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway 69) and SE Magazine Road.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 2,683

2010 Census Unincorporated Population- 285



3.09  PRECINCT NUMBER EIGHT.



Election Precinct Number Eight is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of SW Oralabor Road and SW Snyder Boulevard;
thence east to the  western boundary of the Union Pacific Railroad
Right-of-Way; thence southwesterly along said west line of the westernmost
Union Pacific Railroad Right-of-Way to the south corporate limit line; thence
clockwise along the corporate limit line to the centerline of County Road NW
72nd Place; thence west to the centerline of SW Ankeny Road; thence
northeasterly along said centerline to the intersection of SW Twin Gates
Drive; thence northeasterly along the centerline of SW Twin Gates Drive to
the centerline of SW Ankeny Road; thence northeasterly along the centerline
of SW Ankeny Road to the centerline of SW Snyder Boulevard; thence north to
the point of beginning, the intersection of SW Oralabor Road and SW Snyder
Boulevard.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,068



3.10  PRECINCT NUMBER NINE.



Election Precinct Number Nine is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of South Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway 69) and
SW Oralabor Road; thence west to the centerline of SW Snyder Boulevard;
thence south along the centerline of SW Snyder Boulevard to the centerline of
SW Ankeny Road; thence southwest to the center line of SW Twin Gates Drive;
thence southwesterly along the centerline of SW Twin Gates Drive to the
centerline of SW Ankeny Road; thence southwesterly along the centerline of SW
Ankeny Road to the corporate limits; thence west north and west along the
corporate limits to the centerline of SW State Street (US Highway 415);
thence north along the centerline of SW State Street to the centerline of
West 1st Street; thence east to the centerline of the Union Pacific Railroad
Right-of-Way; thence southeast along the railway to its intersection with SW
Maple; thence south on SW Maple to the centerline of SW Third Street; thence
east to the centerline of SW Cherry Street; thence south to the centerline of
the Union Pacific Railroad Right-of-Way; thence southeast along said
centerline to the centerline of South Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway 69);
thence south to the point of beginning, the intersection of South Ankeny
Boulevard (US Highway 69) and SW Oralabor Road.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 2,486



3.11  PRECINCT NUMBER TEN.



Election Precinct Number Ten is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of NW State Street and NW 18th Street; thence
east to the west edge of census block GEOID 191530102051001; thence south to
the north boundary of GEOID 191530102051003; thence counter-clockwise on the
boundary of GEOID 191530102051003 to the west boundary of GEOID
191530102051000; thence south along the east boundary of GEOID
191530102051002 to its intersection with NW 9th Street; thence south to the
centerline of NW 9th Street; thence west along the centerline of NW 9th
Street to the centerline of NW Ash Drive; thence south to the northwest
corner of census block GEOID 191530102051016; thence south along the west
edge of census block GEOID 191530102051016 to the centerline of W. 1st
Street; thence west to the centerline of NW College Avenue; thence north to
the centerline of NW Fourth Street; thence east to the southwest corner of
census block GEOID 191530102073001; thence north and east along the boundary
of census block GEOID 191530102073001 to census block GEOID 191530102073004;
thence north and east along the boundary of census block GEOID
191530102073004 to the centerline of NW State Street; thence north along the
centerline of NW State Street to the point of beginning, the intersection of
NW State Street and NW 18th Street.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,363



3.12  PRECINCT NUMBER ELEVEN.



Election Precinct Number Eleven is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of West 1st Street and NW College Drive; thence
north to the centerline of NW Fourth Street; thence east to the southwest
corner of census block GEOID 191530102073001; thence north and east along the
boundary of census block GEOID 191530102073001 to census block GEOID
191530102073004; thence north and east along the boundary of census block
GEOID 191530102073004 to the centerline of NW State Street; thence north
along the centerline of NW State Street to the intersection of NW State
Street and NW 18th Street; thence west to centerline of NW Greenwood Drive;
thence south along the centerline of NW Greenwood Drive to the centerline of
NW 5th Street; thence west along the centerline of NW 5th Street to the
centerline of NW Irvinedale Drive; thence south to the centerline of West 1st
Street; thence east to the point of beginning, the intersection of West 1st
Street and NW College Drive.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,422



3.13  PRECINCT NUMBER TWELVE (TOWN AND COUNTRY).



Election Precinct Number Twelve is that part of the City and a small
unincorporated area lying within the following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of North Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway 69) and
NE 36th Street; thence west to the centerline of NW Ash Drive; thence south
to the centerline of NW Georgetown Boulevard; thence easterly along the
centerline of NW Georgetown Boulevard to the centerline of North Ankeny
Boulevard (US Highway 69); thence south to the intersection of NW 18th
Street; thence west to the intersection of NW Greenwood Drive; thence south
to the centerline of NW 5th Street; thence westerly along the centerline of
NW 5th Street to the centerline of NW Irvinedale Drive; thence north to the
centerline of NW 18th Street; thence west to the centerline of NW Weigel
Drive; thence south to the southeast corner of GEOID 191530102033111; thence
west along the southern boundary of GEOID 191530102033111 to the west
corporate limit line; thence clockwise along the corporate limit line to its
intersection with the centerline of NW 54th Street (County NW 118th Avenue);
thence east to the centerline of North Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway 69);
thence south to the point of beginning, the intersection of North Ankeny
Boulevard (US Highway 69) and NE 36th Street.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,092

2010 Census Unincorporated Population- 14



3.14  PRECINCT NUMBER THIRTEEN (TOWN AND COUNTRY).



Election Precinct Number Thirteen is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of NW Irvinedale Drive and NW 5th Street;
thence north to the centerline of NW 18th Street; thence west to the
centerline of NW Weigel Drive; thence south to the southeast corner of GEOID
191530102033111; thence west along the southern boundary of GEOID
191530102033111 to the west corporate limit line; thence counter-clockwise
along the corporate limit line to its intersection with the centerline of SW
Irvinedale Drive; thence north to the point of beginning, the intersection of
NW Irvinedale Drive and NW 5th Street.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,158

2010 Census Unincorporated Population- 10



3.15  PRECINCT NUMBER FOURTEEN.



Election Precinct Number Fourteen is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of West 1st Street and SW Irvinedale Drive;
thence east to the centerline of SW State Street; thence southerly along the
centerline of SW State Street to the centerline of SW Polk City Drive; thence
northwesterly along the centerline of SW Polk City Drive to the centerline of
SW Oralabor Road (US Highway 415); thence west to the west corporate limit
line; thence clockwise along the corporate limit line to the west
Right-of-Way of SW Irvinedale Drive; thence north along the corporate limit
boundary to the centerline of SW Court Avenue; thence east to the centerline
of SW Irvinedale Drive; thence north to the point of beginning, the
intersection of West 1st Street and SW Irvinedale Drive.

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 2,775



3.16  PRECINCT NUMBER FIFTEEN.



Election Precinct Number Fifteen is that part of the City lying within the
following described perimeter:



Beginning at the intersection of SW Polk City Drive and SW Oralabor Road (US
Highway 415); thence southeast to the corporate limits; thence clockwise
along the corporate limit line to the intersection with NW 4th Street; thence
south to the south corporate limit line; thence clockwise along the corporate
limit line to the centerline of County Road NW 26th Street; thence north to
the centerline of SW Oralabor Road; thence east along said centerline to the
point of beginning, the intersection of SW Polk City Drive and SW Oralabor
Road (US Highway 415).

2010 Census City of Ankeny Population- 3,106



3.17  POLLING PLACES.



Polling places shall be determined by the Polk County Elections Commissioner
to best serve the needs of each precinct.




(Ch. 3 - Ord. 1708 - Oct. 11 Supp.)




CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS



 

4.01  Municipal Infraction
 
4.04  Civil Citations


4.02  Environmental Violation
 
4.05  Alternative Relief


4.03  Penalties
 
4.06  Criminal Penalties



 



4.01  MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.



A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein
adopted by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically
provided under State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious
misdemeanor, or a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the
Code of Iowa, is a municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as
provided herein.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])



4.02  ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.



A municipal infraction which is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an
environmental violation.  However, the provisions of this section shall not
be applicable until the City has offered to participate in informal
negotiations regarding the violation or to the following specific violations:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])



1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard
or requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8.



2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the
handling, drying or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the
industrial production or manufacturing of grain products.



3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the
handling, drying or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial
production or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to
January 15.



4.03  PENALTIES.



A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])



1.   Standard Civil Penalties.  Unless another civil penalty is provided
elsewhere in this code for a specific violation, a municipal infraction is a
civil offense punishable as provided in the following schedule of civil
penalties:



(Ord. 1758 - Apr. 13 Supp.)



   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00



   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00



Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.



2.   Special Civil Penalties.



   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8, by
an industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for
each day a violation exists or continues.



   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence. 
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:



      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial
startup, cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or
conducting a shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the
equipment designed to reduce or eliminate the violation.



      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within twenty-four
(24) hours from the time that the violation begins.



      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more
than eight (8) hours.



4.04  CIVIL CITATIONS.



Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction.  The
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at
defendant’s last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by
publication in the manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and
subject to the conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311.  A copy of the
citation shall be served to the defendant, a copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to
the Clerk of the District Court.  The citation shall serve as notification
that a civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following
information:



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])



1.   The name and address of the defendant.



2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.



3.   The location and time of the infraction.



4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.



5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.



6.   The time and place of court appearance.



7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.



4.05  ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.



Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. 
Such alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for
abatement or injunctive relief.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[8])



4.06  CRIMINAL PENALTIES.



This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation.  Nor does it preclude or
limit the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of the Code of
Ordinances by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.  In addition to any
other provision of the Code of Ordinances specifying criminal penalties, the
City hereby specifically provides for criminal penalties allowed by Iowa law
for simple misdemeanors but specifically excluding imprisonment, for
violations of the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22, 701.8, & 903.1a)



(Ord. 1930 - Feb. 18 Supp.)



 




Chapter 40

 

Public Peace




Chapter 41

 

Public Health and Safety




Chapter 42

 

Public and Private Property




Chapter 44

 

Noise Control




Chapter 47

 

Park Regulations




Chapter 55

 

Animal Protection and Control




Chapter 56

 

Dog and Cat License Requirements




Chapter 57

 

Dangerous and Vicious Animals




Chapter 110

 

Solid Waste Control




Chapter 132

 

Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants




Chapter 134

 

Taxicabs




Chapter 152

 

Sidewalk Regulations





 



(Ord. 1883 - Jun. 16 Supp.)



CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES



 

5.01  Oaths
 
5.07  Conflict of Interest


5.02  Bonds
 
5.08  Resignations


5.03  Duties:  General
 
5.09  Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees


5.04  Books and Records
 
5.10  Removal of Elected Officers


5.05  Transfer to Successor
 
5.11  Vacancies


5.06  Meetings
 
5.12  Gifts


 
5.13  Minimum Wage



 



5.01  OATHS.



The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:



1.   Qualify for Office.  Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify
for office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a
bond.  The oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is
certified as elected, no later than noon of the first day which is not a
Sunday or a legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which
the officer was elected.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)



2.   Prescribed Oath.  The prescribed oath is:  “I, (name), do
solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and
impartially, to the best of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of
(name of office) in Ankeny as now or hereafter required by law.”



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)



3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths.  The following are empowered
to administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:



   A.   Mayor



   B.   City Clerk



C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)



5.02  BONDS.



Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:



1.   Required.  The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond
or blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor and Clerk
and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and advisable.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)



2.   Bonds Approved.  Bonds shall be approved by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)



3.   Bonds Filed.  All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])



4.   Record.  The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record
of Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all
City officers, elective or appointive.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])



5.03  DUTIES:  GENERAL.



Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by
the Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



5.04  BOOKS AND RECORDS.



All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of
law expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept
confidential.  Access to public records which are combined with data
processing software shall be in accordance with policies and procedures
established by the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)



5.05  TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.



Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



5.06  MEETINGS.



All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be
held in accordance with the following:



1.   Notice of Meetings.  Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of
the time, date, and place of each meeting, and its tentative agenda shall be
given.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)



2.   Meetings Open.  All meetings shall be held in open session unless
closed sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)



3.   Minutes.  Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date,
time and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. 
The minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information
sufficient to indicate the vote of each member present.  The vote of each
member present shall be made public at the open session.  The minutes shall
be public records open to public inspection.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)



4.   Closed Session.  A closed session may be held only by affirmative
vote of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the
meeting and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)



5.   Cameras and Recorders.  The public may use cameras or recording
devices at any open session.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)



6.   Electronic Meetings.  A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)



5.07  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.



A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. 
A contract entered into in violation of this section is void.  The
provisions of this section do not apply to:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)



1.   Compensation of Officers.  The payment of lawful compensation of a
City officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the
holding of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not
prohibited by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[1])



2.   Investment of Funds.  The designation of a bank or trust company as
a depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[2])



3.   City Treasurer.  An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves
as Treasurer of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3])



4.   Stock Interests.  Contracts in which a City officer or employee has
an interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract.  The competitive bid
qualification of this subsection does not apply to a contract for
professional services not customarily awarded by competitive bid.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[5])



5.   Newspaper.  The designation of an official newspaper. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[6])



6.   Existing Contracts.  A contract in which a City officer or employee
has an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or
employee was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[7])



7.   Volunteers.  Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[8])



8.   Corporations.  A contract with a corporation in which a City officer
or employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent (5%) of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or
controlled directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or
immediate family of such officer or employee.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[9])



9.   Contracts.  Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in
writing, publicly invited, and opened. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[4])



10.   Cumulative Purchases.  Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services which benefit a City officer
or employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not
exceed a cumulative total purchase price of fifteen hundred dollars
($1500.00) in a fiscal year.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[10])



11.   Franchise Agreements.  Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[12])



12.   Third Party Contracts.  A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the
City but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not
be the original underwriter, purchaser or obligee of the contract.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[13])



5.08  RESIGNATIONS.



An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered.  A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible
for appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was
elected, if during that time the compensation of the office has been
increased.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])



5.09  REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.



Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order.  The order
shall give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall
be sent by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with
the Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing the copy, shall
be granted a public hearing before the Council on all issues connected with
the removal.  The hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days after the
date the request is filed, unless the person removed requests a later date.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)



5.10  REMOVAL OF ELECTED OFFICERS.



Any elective officer may be removed from office by a two-thirds vote of the
entire Council, after a hearing on written charges filed with the Council,
for any of the following causes:



1.   For willful or habitual neglect or refusal to perform the duties of
his or her office;



2.   For willful misconduct or maladministration in office;



3.   For corruption;



4.   For extortion;



5.   Upon conviction of a felony;



6.   For intoxication or upon conviction of being intoxicated.



5.11  VACANCIES.



A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled,
at the Council’s option, by one of the two following procedures:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[2])



1.   Appointment.  By appointment following public notice by the
remaining members of the Council within forty (40) days after the vacancy
occurs, except that if the remaining members do not constitute a quorum of
the full membership, or if a petition is filed requesting an election, the
Council shall call a special election as provided by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[2a])



2.   Election.  By a special election held to fill the office for the
remaining balance of the unexpired term as provided by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[2b])



5.12  GIFTS.



Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or
series of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a
restricted donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly
with one or more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of
gifts to a public official, public employee or candidate.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)



5.13    MINIMUM WAGE.



1.   The City of Ankeny hereby adopts Chapter 91D entitled Minimum Wage
for the hourly wage to be paid within the City Limits of the City of Ankeny.



2.   By this Ordinance, the City of Ankeny is adopting an Ordinance that
conflicts with Polk County Ordinance No. 317 entitled Polk County Minimum
Wage Ordinance, thereby allowing the City of Ankeny not to be subject to
Ordinance No. 317 entitled Polk County Minimum Wage Ordinance.



3.   The City of Ankeny's Ordinance shall continue to conflict to any wage
increases as set forth in Ordinance No. 317 entitled Polk County Minimum Wage
Ordinance established by the County to begin April 1, 2017, and to be
increased on January 1, 2018, January 1, 2019 and January 1, 2020.



(Ord. 1905 - May 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS



 

6.01  Nominating Method to be Used
 
6.04  Date of Primary


6.02  Candidacy
 
6.05  Qualification


6.03  Primary Election Required
 
6.06  Candidates Elected



 



6.01  NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.



All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)



6.02  CANDIDACY.



An eligible elector of the City may become a candidate for an elective City
office by filing with the City Clerk a valid petition requesting that the
elector’s name be placed on the ballot for that office.  The petition must
be filed not more than seventy-one (71) days or less than forty-seven (47)
days before the date of the election and must be signed by eligible electors
equal in number to at least two percent (2%) of those who voted to fill the
same office at the last regular City election, but not less than ten (10)
persons.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.4)



6.03  PRIMARY ELECTION REQUIRED.



An individual for whom a valid petition is filed becomes a candidate in the
regular City election for the office for which the individual has filed,
except that a primary election must be held for offices for which the number
of individuals for whom valid petitions are filed is more than twice the
number of positions to be filled.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.6)



6.04  DATE OF PRIMARY.



If a primary election is necessary, it shall be held on the Tuesday four (4)
weeks before the date of the regular City election.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.7)



6.05  QUALIFICATION.



The names of those candidates who receive the highest number of votes for
each office on the primary election ballot, to the extent of twice the number
of unfilled positions, must be placed on the ballot for the regular City
election as candidates for that office.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.7)



6.06  CANDIDATES ELECTED.



In a regular City election following a City primary, the candidates receiving
the greatest number of votes cast for each office on the ballot are elected,
to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8)



CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS



 

7.01  Purpose
 
7.06  Applications


7.02  Definitions
 
7.07  Approval


7.03  Period of Partial Exemption
 
7.08  Exemption Repealed


7.04  Amounts Eligible for Exemption
 
7.09  Dual Exemptions Prohibited


7.05  Limitations
 



 



7.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from
property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the
new construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.



7.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first
year for which the exemption is received.



2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used
primarily for the storage of goods which are intended for subsequent shipment
to retail outlets.  Distribution center does not mean a building or
structure used primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily
by a manufacturer to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process,
used primarily for the storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail
sale of goods.



3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and
includes new buildings and structures which are constructed as additions to
existing buildings and structures.  New construction does not include
reconstruction of an existing building or structure which does not constitute
complete replacement of an existing building or structure or refitting of an
existing building or structure unless the reconstruction of an existing
building or structure is required due to economic obsolescence and the
reconstruction is necessary to implement recognized industry standards for
the manufacturing and processing of specific products and the reconstruction
is required for the owner of the building or structure to continue
competitively to manufacture or process those products, which determination
shall receive prior approval from the City Council of the City upon the
recommendation of the Iowa Department of Economic Development.



4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of
buildings devoted primarily to research and development activities,
including, but not limited to, the design and production or manufacture of
prototype products for experimental use, and corporate research services
which do not have a primary purpose of providing on-site services to the
public.



5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public
warehouse for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the
Code of Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at
retail.



7.03  PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.



The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five (5) years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)



7.04  AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.



The amount of actual value added which is eligible to be exempt from taxation
shall be as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)



1.   For the first year, seventy-five percent (75%) 



2.   For the second year, sixty percent (60%)



3.   For the third year, forty-five percent (45%) 



4.   For the fourth year, thirty percent (30%) 



5.   For the fifth year, fifteen percent (15%)



7.05  LIMITATIONS.



The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of
the new construction added.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)



7.06  APPLICATIONS.



An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value
added for which an exemption is claimed.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)



1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in
which the value added is first assessed for taxation.



2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.



7.07  APPROVAL.



A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction.  If the City
Council resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold
a public hearing thereon.  Thereafter, at least thirty (30) days after such
hearing the City Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax
exemption for new construction if the new construction is in conformance with
City zoning.  Such prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption
from taxation until the new construction has been completed and found to be
qualified real estate.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)



7.08  EXEMPTION REPEALED.



When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)



7.09  DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.



A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property
tax exemption authorized by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)



 



EDITOR’S NOTE


The following ordinances have been adopted granting prior approval.



ORDINANCE NO.

 

ADOPTED

 

APPLICANT




980

 

1987

 

Ray’s Cabinet Shop




981

 

1987

 

Mrs. Clark’s Foods




982

 

1987

 

Perishable Distributors of Iowa, Ltd.




983

 

1987

 

Younkers, Inc.




1087

 

1990

 

Denny Elwell Investment Company




1116

 

1991

 

Denny Elwell Investment Company




1222

 

1995

 

Circuit City Stores, Incorporated




1285

 

1997

 

Denny L. Elwell




1293

 

1998

 

Denny L. Elwell




1296

 

1998

 

Denny Elwell Companies




1328

 

1999

 

Mrs. Clark’s Foods




1329

 

1999

 

L & L Insulation and Supply Co.




1521

 

2005

 

Denny Elwell Family LC




1522

 

2005

 

Casey’s Retail Company




1530

 

2005

 

Denny Elwell Family LC




1553

 

2006

 

Embria Health Sciences, LLC




1567

 

2007

 

Halyard Clarke LLC





 



CHAPTER 7A
PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION FOR
SPECULATIVE SHELL BUILDINGS



 

7A.01  Purpose
 
7A.03  Eligibility for Tax Exemption


7A.02  Definitions
 
7A.04  Application



 



7A.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to provide financial incentives for the
development of speculative shell buildings by for-profit entities to increase
investment by, and employment in, those industries generally accepted as
targeted industries for the State of Iowa and the City of Ankeny which
include:  Advanced Manufacturing, Bioscience, Logistics, Information
Technology and Business Services.



7A.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following definitions apply:



1.   "New construction" means new buildings or structures constructed by
for-profit entities to market a building or structure as a speculative shell
building, which determination must receive prior approval from the City
Council.



2.   "Speculative shell building" means a building or structure owned and
constructed by a for-profit entity which will complete the building to a
user's specification for conducting research and development for the building
user's product line, manufacturing, processing, distributing or warehousing
the user's product line.  Speculative shall buildings do not include
properties developed for, or marketed as, service-oriented businesses.



7A.03  ELIGIBILITY FOR TAX EXEMPTION.



The new construction of shell buildings is eligible for property tax
exemption commencing with the assessment year in which the building is first
assessed.  Eligibility for an exemption as a speculative shell building
shall be determined as of January 1 of the assessment year.  The exemption
shall continue until terminated by ordinance of the City Council.  The
schedule of valuation exempted shall be in accordance with Section 427B.3 of
the Code of Iowa.  This exemption shall apply only (1) for properties that
are currently served with public water and sewer and for which no road
improvements are needed; or (2) for properties for which the developer will
assume all responsibilities for such public improvements.



7A.04  APPLICATION.



An application shall be filed with the local assessor for each project for
which an exemption is claimed in accordance with Section 427B.4 of the Code
of Iowa.  The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value added is
first assessed for taxation.  Applications for exemption shall be made on
forms prescribed by the Director of Revenue and shall contain information
pertaining to the nature of the improvement, its cost, and other information
deemed necessary by the Director of Revenue.  A person may submit a proposal
to the City Council to receive prior approval for eligibility for a tax
exemption on new construction.  The City Council, by ordinance, may give its
prior approval of a tax exemption for new construction if the new
construction is in conformance with the zoning plans for the City.  The
prior approval shall also be subject to the hearing requirements of Iowa Code
Section 427B.1.  Prior approval does not entitle the owner to exemption from
taxation until the new construction has been completed and found to be
qualified real estate.  However, if the tax exemption for new construction
is not approved, the person may submit an amended proposal to the City
Council to approve or reject.




(Ch. 7A - Ord. 1650 - Jan. 10 Supp.)




CHAPTER 8
URBAN RENEWAL



 




EDITOR’S NOTE



The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.



ORDINANCE NO.

 

ADOPTED

 

NAME OF AREA




1039

 

May 15, 1989

 

Original Plan




1189

 

April 10, 1994

 

Amendment #1




1423

 

May 23, 2003

 

Amendment #2




1446

 

November 21, 2003

 

Amendment #3




1682

 

November 1, 2010

 

Northeast Ankeny Urban Renewal Area




1741

 

October 15, 2012

 

Amendment No. 5 to 1989 Ankeny Economic Development Urban Renewal Area




1943

 

April 16, 2018

 

Amendment No. 8 to 1989 Ankeny Economic Development Urban Renewal Area




1947

 

June 18, 2018

 

Amendment No. 9 to 1989 Ankeny Economic Development Urban Renewal Area




1965

 

March 18, 2019

 

Amendment No. 10 to 1989 Ankeny Economic Development Urban Renewal Area





 


 






 



CHAPTER 9
URBAN REVITALIZATION



 

EDITOR’S NOTE


Ordinance No. 934, adopted January 31, 1985, designated the Uptown Urban
Revitalization Area for the City.  This ordinance, not codified herein, is
specifically saved from repeal.



 



CHAPTER 10
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX



 

10.01  Definitions
 
10.04  Collection


10.02  Tax Imposed
 
10.05  Use of Revenues


10.03  Tax Exemptions
 



 



10.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Lodging” means rooms, apartments, or sleeping quarters in a
hotel, motel, inn, public lodging house, rooming house, or manufactured or
mobile home which is tangible personal property, or in a tourist court, or in
any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to transient guests for
rent, whether with or without meals.



2.   “Renting” or “rent” means a transfer of possession or control
of lodging for a fixed or indeterminate term for consideration and includes
any kind of direct or indirect charge for such lodging or its use.



3.   “Sales price” means the consideration for renting of lodging and
means the same as the term is defined in Section 423.1 of the Code of Iowa.



All other words and phrases used in this chapter and defined in Section 423.1
of the Code of Iowa have the meaning given them by Section 423.1 for the
purposes of this chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.2)



10.02  TAX IMPOSED.



There is hereby imposed a seven percent (7%) local hotel and motel tax upon
the sales price from the renting of lodging within the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.4)



10.03  TAX EXEMPTION.



There is exempted from the provisions of this chapter and from the
computation of any amount of tax imposed by Section 10.02 all of the
following:



1.   The sales price from the renting of lodging which is rented by the
same person for a period of more than thirty-one consecutive days.



2.   The sales price of lodging furnished to the guests of a religious
institution if the property is exempt under Section 427.1, subsection 8 of
the Code of Iowa, and the purpose of renting is to provide a place for a
religious retreat or function and not a place for transient guests generally.



3.   The sales price from the renting of sleeping rooms in dormitories and
in memorial unions at all universities and colleges located in the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.5)



10.04  COLLECTION.



The tax imposed in this chapter shall be remitted by the person or company
liable for same to the State Director of Revenue in the manner required by
State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.6)



10.05  USE OF REVENUES.



All revenue received by the City from the imposition of the hotel and motel
tax shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City and shall be used as
follows:



1.   At least 50 percent of the revenue derived from the hotel and motel
tax shall be spent for the acquisition of sites for, or constructing,
improving, enlarging, equipping, repairing, operating, or maintaining of
recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities including but
not limited to memorial buildings, halls and monuments, civic center
convention buildings, auditoriums, coliseums, and parking areas or facilities
located at those recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment
facilities or the payment of principal and interest, when due, on bonds or
other evidence of indebtedness issued by the City for those recreation,
convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities; or for the promotion and
encouragement of tourist and convention business in the City and surrounding
areas.



2.   The remaining revenues may be spent by the City for any City
operation authorized by law as a proper purpose for the expenditure within
statutory limitations of City revenue derived from ad valorem taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.7)



CHAPTER 11
SPECIAL EVENTS



 

11.01  Permit Required
 
11.04  Other Permits and Licenses Required


11.02  Exemptions
 
11.05  Authority of City Manager


11.03  Application
 
11.06  Penalty




11.01  PERMIT REQUIRED. 




A Special Event Permit is required for all the following events:



1.   Events on public or private property with 200 or more persons at any
one time which have one or more of the following:



   A.   Partial or full closure of a public street;



   B.   Blocking or restricting access to private property of others or
blocking or restricting access to a public property;



   C.   Use of pyrotechnics or special effects;



   D.   Use of open flame or other potentially dangerous displays;



   E.   Sale or distribution of merchandise, food or beverages
including alcoholic beverages;



   F.   Erection of a tent or canopy requiring a permit;



   G.   Installation of a stage, band shell, truck, trailer, van,
portable building, booth, grandstand or bleachers;



   H.   Placement of portable toilets;



   I.   Placement of temporary signs or banners;



   J.   Amplified sound.



Special Event Permit may be waived by resolution of the City Council under
circumstances deemed to be in the best interest of the City.



11.02  EXEMPTIONS. 



The following events are exempt from obtaining a Special Event Permit:



1.   An event conducted entirely on the property of a church, educational
institution, college, or university campus;



2.   An event conducted entirely on City-owned property subject to a
contract, lease, or agreement;



3.   An event conducted entirely on property containing an occupied
private residence;



4.   Annual community designated celebrations as designated by resolution
of the City Council;



5.   Sports facilities located on City property;



11.03  APPLICATION. 



A completed application on forms furnished by the City of Ankeny shall be
filed with the City Clerk at least 30 days prior to the event requiring the
Special Event Permit, except for a Special Event Permit when a liquor license
is required, then the time period shall be 45 days. 



11.04  OTHER PERMITS AND LICENSES REQUIRED.



All sponsors, applicants, and vendors shall obtain and maintain all necessary
permits and licenses required for the event, as required elsewhere in this
Municipal Code or by law.



11.05  AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER. 



The City Manager or City Manager designee has the authority to accept or
reject events and to terminate or suspend an event which is in violation of
this chapter and/or the rules and regulations for Special Events as adopted
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.  In addition, the City
Manager or City Manager’s designee has the right to deny or delay a Special
Event Permit if sufficient time has not been allowed for the approval
process.  The City shall have the authority to revoke a Special Event Permit
by reason of disaster, public riot or other public safety emergency, or
violations to local, State and Federal requirements. 



11.06  PENALTY. 



A violation of this chapter is a municipal infraction subject to the
provisions of Chapter 4 of this Municipal Code.



(Ch. 11 added by Ord. 1659 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



CHAPTER 12
THE USE AND TRANSFER OF
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT COLLECTIONS



 

12.01  Use of Special Assessment Collections for Project Costs
 
12.03  Distribution of Remaining Special Assessment Collections


12.02  Additional Use of Special Assessment Collections
 






12.01    USE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT COLLECTIONS FOR PROJECT COSTS.




In accord with Division IV of Iowa Code Chapter 384, and in consideration of
the restrictions set forth therein, all funds derived from special
assessments levied by the City as allowed by law (hereinafter “Special
Assessment Collections”), shall be used first to pay any outstanding
assessable project costs for the public improvement for which private
property was assessed, or the outstanding debt service on any obligations
sold to fund said assessable portion of said project costs for the public
improvement project.



12.02    ADDITIONAL USE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT COLLECTIONS.



In the event all assessable project costs for any closed public improvement
project have been paid and no debt service payments for obligations sold to
fund any assessable portion of project costs of such closed public
improvement project remain outstanding, then Special Assessment Collections
shall be held in a fund to be used to guarantee bonds issued under Iowa Code
Section 384.68 to the extent that any such bonds are outstanding. In the
event that no bonds issued under Iowa Code Section 384.68 are outstanding,
all remaining Special Assessment Collections shall be credited to reimburse
the fund from which project costs were paid by the City on account of any
deficiencies under Section 384.63.



12.03    DISTRIBUTION OF REMAINING SPECIAL ASSESSMENT COLLECTIONS.



In the event all funds used to cover deficiencies under Section 384.63, as
provided in Section 12.02 above, if any, have been reimbursed then any
remaining Special Assessment Collections shall be transferred to the fund
from which project costs were paid, or from which debt service on obligations
used to pay projects costs were paid.



(Ch. 12 - Ord. 1806 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



CHAPTER 15
MAYOR



 

15.01  Term of Office
 
15.04  Compensation


15.02  Powers and Duties
 
15.05  Voting


15.03  Appointments
 



 



15.01  TERM OF OFFICE.



The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)



15.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:



1.   Chief Executive Officer.  Act as the chief executive officer of the
City and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the
City, except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Manager, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments,
their records and to call for special reports from department heads at any
time. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])



2.   Proclamation of Emergency.  Have authority to take command of the
police and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that
a time of emergency or public danger exists.  Within the City limits, the
Mayor has all the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])



3.   Special Meetings.  Call special meetings of the Council when the
Mayor deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.   



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])



4.   Mayor’s Veto.  Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution passed by the Council.  The Mayor may veto an
ordinance, amendment, or resolution within fourteen days after passage.  The
Mayor shall explain the reasons for the veto in a written message to the
Council at the time of the veto.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])



5.   Reports to Council.  Make such oral or written reports to the
Council as required.  These reports shall concern municipal affairs
generally, the municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for
Council action.



6.   Negotiations.  Represent the City in all negotiations properly
entered into in accordance with law or ordinance.  The Mayor shall not
represent the City where this duty is specifically delegated to another
officer by law, ordinance, or Council direction.



7.   Contracts.  Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on
behalf of the City.



8.   Professional Services.  Upon order of the Council, secure for the
City such specialized and professional services not already available to the
City.  In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in
accordance with the Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State. 



9.   Licenses and Permits.  Sign all licenses and permits which have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.



10.   Nuisances.  Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.



11.   Absentee Officer.  Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.



15.03  APPOINTMENTS.



The Mayor shall appoint the Mayor Pro Tem, and the Mayor also appoints, with
Council approval, the following officials:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)



1.   Park Board



2.   Arts Council



3.   Ankeny Sports Complex Foundation



4.   Library Board of Trustees



5.   Civil Service Commission



6.   Mayor’s Youth Council



7.   Board of Examiners and Appeals



8.   Zoning Administrator



9.   Zoning Board of Adjustment



15.04  COMPENSATION.



The Mayor shall be paid as compensation the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) per year, and shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred
in the performance of duties, at the same rate and in the same manner as
other City employees.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



15.05  VOTING.



The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)



CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM



 

16.01  Vice President of Council
 
16.03  Voting Rights


16.02  Powers and Duties
 
16.04  Compensation



 



16.01  VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.



The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])



16.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.



Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties.  In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ or discharge from
employment, officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ or discharge without the approval of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])



16.03  VOTING RIGHTS.



The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])



16.04  COMPENSATION.



If, at any meeting of the Council, the Mayor is not present, the Mayor Pro
Tem shall act as presiding officer pro tempore; at each such meeting the
Mayor Pro Tem shall be compensated at the rate of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) per meeting.  If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor
during the Mayor’s absence or disability for a continuous period of fifteen
(15) days or more, the Mayor Pro Tem may be paid for that period the
compensation as determined by the Council, based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s
performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the compensation of the Mayor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL



 

17.01  Number and Term of Council
 
17.04  Council Meetings


17.02  Powers and Duties
 
17.05  Appointments


17.03  Exercise of Power
 
17.06  Compensation



 



17.01  NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.



The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 & 376.2)



17.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:



1.   General.  All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])



2.   Wards.  By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards
based upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or
create new wards. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])



3.   Fiscal Authority.  The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and
order payment thereof.  It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement or repairs which
may be specially assessed.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])



4.   Public Improvements.  The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])



5.   Contracts.  The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts.  No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)



6.   Employees.  The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office and compensation of employees or officers not
otherwise provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers.  By ordinance, the
Council shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and
other elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor
does not become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and
the Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of
any elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of
a regular City election.  A change in the compensation of Council members
becomes effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the
Council members elected at the election next following the change in
compensation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



17.03  EXERCISE OF POWER.



The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])



1.   Action by Council.  Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. 
Passage of a motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council.  A
resolution must be passed to spend public funds in excess of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) on a public improvement project, or to accept
public improvements and facilities upon their completion.  Each Council
member’s vote on a measure must be recorded.  A measure which fails to
receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered defeated.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)



2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto.  Within thirty (30) days after the
Mayor’s veto, the Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less
than two-thirds of all of the members of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])



3.   Measures Become Effective.  Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:



   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective
when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.   



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])



   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately
upon signing.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])



   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the
motion by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])



   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and
the Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution
becomes effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment
becomes a law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])



   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective fourteen (14) days after the date
of passage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a
summary of the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the
date of passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the
ordinance or amendment.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])



“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the
Council including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but
does not include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason
of a conflict of interest.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)



17.04  COUNCIL MEETINGS.



Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section 5.06 of
this Code of Ordinances.  Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:



1.   Regular Meetings.  The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.



2.   Special Meetings.  Special meetings shall be held upon call of the
Mayor or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])



3.   Quorum.  A majority of all Council members is a quorum. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])



4.   Rules of Procedure.  The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])



5.   Compelling Attendance.  Any three members of the Council can compel
the attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly
called meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend
at once. 



17.05  APPOINTMENTS.



The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:



1.   City Manager



2.   City Clerk



3.   Deputy City Clerk



4.   City Attorney



5.   Plan and Zoning Commission



6.   Airport Zoning Commission



7.   Airport Zoning Board of Adjustment



17.06  COMPENSATION.



Each Council member shall be paid as compensation the sum of seven thousand
dollars ($7,000.00) per year, and shall be reimbursed for actual expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties, at the same rate and in the same
manner as other City employees.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK



 

18.01  Appointment and Compensation
 
18.07  Certify Measures


18.02  Powers and Duties: General
 
18.08  Records


18.03  Publication of Minutes
 
18.09  Issue Licenses and Permits


18.04  Recording Measures
 
18.10  Notify Appointees


18.05  Publication
 
18.11  Elections


18.06  Authentication
 
18.12  City Seal



 



18.01  APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.



The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve at the
discretion of the Council.  The Clerk shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])



18.02  POWERS AND DUTIES:  GENERAL.



The Clerk, or in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of
Ordinances and the law.



18.03  PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.



The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and within
fifteen (15) days following a regular or special meeting shall cause the
minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published.  Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])



18.04  RECORDING MEASURES.



The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the
measure was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])



18.05  PUBLICATION.



The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:



1.   Time.  If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action
is required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published
at least once, not less than four (4) or more than twenty (20) days before
the date of the election, hearing or other action, unless otherwise provided
by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3[1])



2.   Manner of Publication.  A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3[2])



18.06  AUTHENTICATION.



The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])



18.07  CERTIFY MEASURES.



The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the
City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)



18.08  RECORDS.



The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:



1.   Ordinances and Codes.  Maintain copies of all effective City
ordinances and codes for public use.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])



2.   Custody.  Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless
otherwise specifically directed by law or ordinance.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



3.   Maintenance.  Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five (5) years except that ordinances,
resolutions, Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption
or replacement of public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least
eleven (11) years following the final maturity of the bonds or obligations. 
Ordinances, resolutions, Council proceedings, records and documents, or
accurate reproductions, relating to real property transactions shall be
maintained permanently.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])



4.   Provide Copy.  Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy
of any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it
may be necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty;
furnish a copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by
Council resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized
officer, affix the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments
which by ordinance and Code of Ordinances are required to be attested by the
affixing of the seal.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])



5.   Filing of Communications.  Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally.  The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in
such communications and petitions.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



18.09  ISSUE LICENSES AND PERMITS.



The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt
number, name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit and purpose
for which issued.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



18.10  NOTIFY APPOINTEES.



The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



18.11  ELECTIONS.



The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections and nominations in
accordance with Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.



18.12  CITY SEAL.



The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates which it may be necessary
or proper to authenticate.  The City seal is circular in form, in the center
of which are the words “ANKENY, IOWA” and around the margin of which are
the words “CITY SEAL.”



CHAPTER 19
CITY MANAGER



 

19.01  Office Established
 
19.05  Political Activity


19.02  Appointment; Tenure; Removal
 
19.06  Financial Reports; Annual Budget


19.03  Compensation
 
19.07  Appointments and Removals; Council Interference


19.04  Duties and Powers Generally
 
19.08  Council, Manager, Staff Relations



 



19.01  OFFICE ESTABLISHED. 



By virtue of the authority conferred by Chapter 372, Code of Iowa, the office
of the City Manager for the City is hereby created. 



19.02  APPOINTMENT; TENURE; REMOVAL.



The City Council shall appoint the City Manager who shall be the
administrative head of the Municipal government and who shall be responsible
for the efficient administration of all departments of the City.  The City
Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term, and appointed without
regard to political beliefs and need not be a resident of the City when
appointed; provided, however, that the Manager shall be come a resident of
the City within a reasonable time after appointment.  In the case of absence
or disability of the City Manager, the Assistant City Manager shall perform
the duties of the Manager.  The City Manager may, at any time, be removed
from office by a majority vote of the members of the City Council.



19.03  COMPENSATION.



The City Manager shall receive a salary to be fixed by the Council at the
time of appointment, or at such other time as the Council may determine.



19.04  DUTIES AND POWERS GENERALLY.



The City Manager shall perform such duties as are required by law and shall
have authority to establish and direct an organizational structure and issue
administrative policies for internal operations necessary to carry out the
policies of the City Council in accordance with and within the scope of the
annual budget.  The duties and powers of the City Manager are as set out in
this chapter, and the Manager shall perform such other and further duties as
may at any time be designated by resolution of the Council.  Unless
otherwise specified, the duties of the City Manager are as follows:



1.   Have and exercise all powers and duties assigned by statute and such
other authority as may be granted by the Council.  The City Manager shall be
charged with the enforcement of all laws and ordinances, resolutions, and
Council directives, and approved operational policies.



2.   Attend all meetings of the City Council, unless otherwise excused by
the Mayor or Council.  The City Manager shall have the right to take part in
the discussion of all matters coming before the Council, but shall not have
the right to vote.



3.   Recommend to the Mayor and Council such measures as the Manager may
deem necessary for good, efficient government and for the general welfare of
the City.



4.   Have specific authority over, supervise, and direct all departments,
offices, classifications and services, and take active control of the police
and fire departments, and be directly responsible to the Mayor and Council
for the same, except for the office of the City Clerk.



5.   Supervise the performance of all contracts for work and services to
be done by the City, except as specified otherwise in said construction or
service program; maintain an accounting of all obligations, agreements,
commitments and contractual franchises involving the City and report to the
Mayor and City Council any deviations from the exact terms as specified.



6.   Be authorized to direct the purchasing of all commodities, materials,
supplies, capital outlay and services for all departments of the City that
have been budgeted and appropriated by appropriate resolution of the Council,
and enforce a program to determine that such purchases are received and are
of the quality and character called for in the appropriate purchase order.



7.   Require the taking of bids on all matters deemed advisable, as
required by law or as directed by the Council.



8.   Enter into and execute, on behalf of the City, all contracts and
agreements when consideration does not exceed $50,000 or less without
preliminary authorization by the City Council; provided, however, that all
expenditures and payments, regardless of amounts, shall be subject to
approval by the City Council.



9.   Appoint and remove all directors of departments.  No appointment
shall be made upon any basis other than that of merit and fitness.



10.   Have the power to hire all employees, subject to applicable
provisions of civil service laws, at such compensation as is authorized by
the City Council.  All employees shall perform their duties under the
direction of the City Manager, or under the direction of the superior to whom
such employee is assigned.  Subject to the provisions of civil service laws,
the City Manager shall have the power to suspend or discharge any employee.



11.   At the head of each department of the City administration shall be a
director who shall be an officer of the City and who shall have the
supervision and control of his or her respective department, subject to and
under the authority of the City Manager.



12.   Appoint and remove assistant City managers.



13.   Appoint and remove the Chief of Police



14.   Appoint and remove the Fire Chief.



15.   Appoint and remove the City Engineer.



16.   Have the authority to temporarily employ any person for emergency
purposes as deemed necessary for the welfare of the City.



17.   Supervise the construction, improvement, repair, maintenance, and
management of all City property, capital improvements, and undertakings of
the City, including the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans,
drawings, specifications, and estimates for capital improvements. 



18.   Accept or approve, on behalf of the City, all easement documents,
deeds of dedication, contract work orders and utility relocation and
right-of-way certifications and agreements.



19.   Approve, on behalf of the City, monetary change orders to existing
contracts when the aggregate amount of the change orders does not exceed 10%
of the base contract amount, subject to availability of funding.



20.   Approve, on behalf of the City, all non-monetary change orders.



21.   Conduct the business affairs of the City and cause accurate records
to be kept by modern approved methods and in an efficient manner.



22.   Maintain accurate and current records of all business of the
departments under the City Manager’s direction, and in a form acceptable to
the Council.



23.   Provide administrative support and assistance to the Mayor and
perform duties in coordination of all phases of municipal activity as
directed by the Mayor and Council.



24.   Perform such other duties as the Mayor and Council may request or
delegate.



19.05  POLITICAL ACTIVITY.



The City Manager shall not participate directly or indirectly in the conduct
of any campaign for the election or reelection of any person to the position
of Council member or Mayor.  This prohibition shall not be deemed to
restrict the City Manager’s right to vote or to make available public
records, as provided by State law or City ordinance.



19.06  FINANCIAL REPORTS; ANNUAL BUDGET.



In addition to those duties specified in Section 19.04, the City Manager
shall keep the Council fully advised of the financial condition of the City
and shall submit to the Council, when requested, itemized financial reports
in writing, and shall further prepare and submit annually to the Council the
required budget for the City.



19.07  APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS; COUNCIL INTERFERENCE.



Neither the Council, nor any of its members shall direct or request the
appointment of any person to, or removal from office by the City Manager, or
by any of the Manager’s subordinates, or in any manner attempt to dictate
the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative
service of the City.  Except for the purpose of inquiry, Council shall deal
with the administrative service solely through the City Manager and no
Council member shall give orders to any subordinates of the Manager, either
publicly or privately.



19.08  COUNCIL, MANAGER, STAFF RELATIONS. 



The City Manager is the chief administrative officer of the City organization
and is responsible directly to the City Council.  All departments and all
City employees are subject to the supervision of the City Manager.  In order
to effectively perform in this capacity, Council/Manager/staff relations
shall be coordinated through the City Manager.  The City Manager or the
Manager’s designee shall be responsible for coordinating all programs,
activities, communications, and other matters pertinent to the
Council/Manager/staff relations process.  All written information provided
to the City Council shall require the approval of the City Manager and shall
be coordinated through the Manager’s office for distribution.  All
communications both written and oral, pertaining to disciplinary actions
involving City employees shall be coordinated through appropriate collective
bargaining procedures or personnel policies of the City.



CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY



 

20.01  Appointment and Compensation
 
20.06  Provide Legal Opinion


20.02  Attorney for City
 
20.07  Attendance at Council Meetings


20.03  Power of Attorney
 
20.08  Prepare Documents


20.04  Ordinance Preparation
 
20.09  Representation of City Employees


20.05  Review and Comment
 



 



20.01  APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.



The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve for an
indefinite term.  The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.



20.02  ATTORNEY FOR CITY.



The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board.  The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend
all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.03  POWER OF ATTORNEY.



The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the
prosecution of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound
upon the same.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.04  ORDINANCE PREPARATION.



The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances which the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.05  REVIEW AND COMMENT.



The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.06  PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.



The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.07  ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.



The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.08  PREPARE DOCUMENTS.



The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms
and other writings which may be required for the use of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.09  REPRESENTATION OF CITY EMPLOYEES.



The City Attorney shall not appear on behalf of any City officer or employee
before any court or tribunal for the purely private benefit of said officer
or employee.  The City Attorney shall, however, if directed by the Council,
appear to defend any City officer or employee in any cause of action arising
out of or in the course of the performance of the duties of his or her office
or employment.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.8)



CHAPTER 21
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES



 

21.01  Public Library
 
21.07  Nonresident Use


21.02  Library Trustees
 
21.08  Expenditures


21.03  Qualifications of Trustees
 
21.09  Annual Report


21.04  Organization of the Board
 
21.10  Injury to Books or Property


21.05  Powers and Duties
 
21.11  Theft


21.06  Contracting with Other Libraries
 
21.12  Notice Posted



 



21.01  PUBLIC LIBRARY.



The public library for the City is known as the Kirkendall Public Library. 
It is referred to in this chapter as the Library.



21.02  LIBRARY TRUSTEES.



The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of seven resident members.  All members are to be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Council. 



21.03  QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.



All members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of the
City.  Members shall be over the age of eighteen (18) years.



21.04  ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.



The organization of the Board shall be as follows:



1.   Term of Office.  All appointments to the Board shall be for four
years, except to fill vacancies.  Each term shall commence on July 1.
Appointments shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or
as near as possible, to stagger the terms.



(Ord. 1936 - May 18 Supp.)



2.   Vacancies.  The position of any Trustee shall be vacated if such
member moves permanently from the City and shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the Board,
except in the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City. 
Vacancies in the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original
appointment except that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for
which the appointment is made. 



3.   Compensation.  Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services. 



21.05  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:



1.   Officers.  To meet and elect from its members a President, a
Secretary, and such other officers as it deems necessary. 



2.   Physical Plant.  To have charge, control and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.



3.   Charge of Affairs.  To direct and control all affairs of the Library.



4.   Hiring of Personnel.  To employ a librarian, and authorize the
librarian to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary for the
proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, that prior to such employment, the compensation of the librarian,
assistants and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.



5.   Removal of Personnel.  To remove the librarian, by a two-thirds vote
of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.



6.   Purchases.  To select, or authorize the librarian to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.



7.   Use by Nonresidents.  To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.



8.   Rules and Regulations.  To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.



9.   Expenditures.  To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all
funds allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys
available by gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of
all other moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals
collected under the rules of the Board.



10.   Gifts.  To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or
mixed property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the
title to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills
of sale for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received
by them from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.



11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts.  To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Ch. 661)



12.   Record of Proceedings.  To keep a record of its proceedings.



13.   County Historical Association.  To have authority to make
agreements with the local County historical association where such exists,
and to set apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come
into the possession of the association.  The Trustees are further authorized
to purchase necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and
protection of such articles as are in their judgment of a historical and
educational nature and pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library
purposes.



21.06  CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.



The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:



1.   Contracting.  The Board may contract with any other boards of
trustees of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation,
private or semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning,
township, or County, or with the trustees of any County library district for
the use of the Library by their respective residents. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 & Ch. 28E)



2.   Termination.  Such a contract may be terminated at any time by
mutual consent of the contracting parties.  It also may be terminated by a
majority vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting
parties.  Such a termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors
by the governing body of a contracting party on a written petition of not
less than five percent (5%) in number of the electors who voted for governor
in the territory of the contracting party at the last general election.  The
petition must be presented to the governing body not less than forty (40)
days before the election.  The proposition may be submitted at any election
provided by law that is held in the territory of the party seeking to
terminate the contract. 



21.07  NONRESIDENT USE.



The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of
the City or County in any one or more of the following ways:



1.   Lending.  By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee. 



2.   Depository.  By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents. 



3.   Bookmobiles.  By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so
that books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents. 



4.   Branch Library.  By establishing branch libraries for lending books
or other Library materials to nonresidents. 



21.08  EXPENDITURES.



All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of
the Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library.  Expenditures
shall be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and
Secretary.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 & 392.5)



21.09  ANNUAL REPORT.



The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of
the fiscal year.  This report shall contain statements as to the condition
of the Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount
of fines collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of
the Library during the year, together with such further information as may be
required by the Council.



21.10  INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.



It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear,
deface, mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper,
periodical, book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture or other property belonging
to the Library or reading room.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



21.11  THEFT.



No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with
the intent to deprive the Library thereof.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)



21.12  NOTICE POSTED.



There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices
informing the public of the following:



1.   Failure to Return.  Failure to return Library materials for two
months or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library
materials, or failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after
the date the person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of
intent to deprive the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the
mailing by restricted certified mail of notice that such material or
equipment is overdue and criminal actions will be taken, has been made to
reclaim the materials or equipment. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)



2.   Detention and Search.  Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)



CHAPTER 22
PLAN AND ZONING COMMISSION



 

22.01  Established; Qualifications; Appointment
 
22.05  Powers


22.02  Tenure; Vacancy Filling; Compensation
 
22.06  Voting


22.03  Organization; Appointment Power
 
22.07  Appropriation


22.04  Absenteeism; Vacancy Filling
 



 



22.01  ESTABLISHED; QUALIFICATIONS; APPOINTMENT.



There is established a Plan and Zoning Commission of the City consisting of
nine members who are citizens of the City and who are qualified by knowledge
or experience to act in matters pertaining to development of a City plan. 
Such members shall not hold any elective office in the City government. 
Such members are appointed by the Council.



22.02  TENURE; VACANCY FILLING; COMPENSATION.



The term of office of the members of the Plan and Zoning Commission is four
years.  Appointments are staggered, so that the terms of not more than
one-third of the members expire in any one year.  Vacancies occurring on the
Commission caused by resignation, death, or otherwise shall be filled by the
Council for the unexpired term.  All members of the commission serve without
compensation, except for their actual expenses which are subject to approval
of the Council.



(Ord. 1936 - May 18 Supp.)



22.03  ORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENT POWER.



1.   The Plan and Zoning Commission shall choose annually, at its first
regular meeting, one of its members to act as Chairperson and another of its
members as Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all of the duties of the
Chairperson during any absence or disability of the Chairperson.  The
Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its organization
and procedure as may be deemed necessary, and it shall make an annual report
to the Council on or before March 1 in each year, such report to contain its
proceedings with a full statement of its receipts, disbursements and the
progress of its work for the preceding fiscal year.



2.   The Plan and Zoning Commission shall be empowered to appoint and
employ such assistants as may be necessary, and to prescribe and define their
duties and fix their compensation.



22.04  ABSENTEEISM; VACANCY FILLING.



Any member of the Commission who is absent from three regularly scheduled
meetings of the Commission during any one calendar year, without good cause,
shall be deemed to have vacated such office on the occasion of such third
absence.  The Chairperson shall, thereupon, immediately report such vacancy
to the Council, who shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired term.



22.05  POWERS.



The Plan and Zoning Commission shall have and possess the following powers
and such other powers as may be incidental to the successful carrying out of
the powers vested in it by this section, or such as may be expressly
conferred upon it by law:



1.   To make such surveys, studies, maps, plans or plats of the whole or
any portion of the City and of any land outside thereof which, in the opinion
of the Commission, bear relation to a comprehensive plan.  The Commission
shall submit such plan to the Council with its studies and recommendations,
and it may publish the same.



2.   To make recommendations for the location or erection of statuary,
memorials or works of art in public places, public buildings, bridges,
viaducts, street fixtures, public structures or appurtenances and the sites
therefor.



3.   To make recommendations upon plans, plats or replats of subdivisions
or resubdivisions which show streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated for public use.



4.   To make recommendations for street, park, parkway, boulevard,
trafficway, or other public improvements.



5.   To carry on comprehensive studies of present conditions and the
future growth of the City in order to guide and accomplish a coordinated,
adjusted and harmonious development of the City, in accordance with the
present and future needs thereof, to the end that the health, safety, morals,
order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare may be best promoted.



6.   To conduct a public hearing upon the adoption of such comprehensive
plan or any amendment thereto.



7.   To prepare a comprehensive plan regulating the height, number of
stories and size of buildings and other structures; the percentage of ground
that may be occupied; the size of yards, courts and other open spaces; the
density of population; and the location and use of buildings, structures and
land for trade, industry, residence or other purposes.  To this end, the
Commission shall prepare a preliminary report and hold hearings thereon and,
after such hearings have been held, shall submit its final report and
recommendations to the Council.



8.   To recommend to the Council, from time to time, as conditions
require, amendments, supplements, changes, or modifications in the
comprehensive plan prepared by it.



9.   To do all things necessary or advisable in order to carry out the
intent and purpose of this chapter and all other laws relating to this
subject and to the State laws, as they now exist or as amended or
supplemented.



22.06  VOTING.



If any preliminary or final plat which has been submitted for approval to the
Plan and Zoning Commission, or any application for rezoning, or any other
action which requires approval by the Commission, after being considered by
such Commission, fails to win approval on a motion made by any member of such
Commission and approved by the required number of members of the Commission,
it shall be deemed to have been rejected or disapproved, and the Council
shall be notified of such action accordingly.  For the purposes of this
chapter, any vote which results in a tie shall be deemed to be a rejection of
any action requiring approval by the Commission.



22.07  APPROPRIATION.



The Council shall annually appropriate a sum of money from the general funds
for the payment of the expense of the Plan and Zoning Commission.  The
Commission shall have full, complete, and exclusive authority to expend for
and on behalf of the City all sums of money so appropriated.  Gifts,
donations or payments which are received by the City for planning and zoning
purposes shall be placed in such fund to be used by the Commission in a
manner appropriate for its purpose.  The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its income for the current year.



CHAPTER 23
PARK BOARD



 

23.01  Established; Purpose
 
23.06  Prescription of Rules and Regulations


23.02  Composition; Terms of Office
 
23.07  Meetings; Frequency


23.03  Organization
 
23.08  Meetings; Absenteeism


23.04  Compensation
 
23.09  Annual Report


23.05  Program Planning Duty
 



 



23.01  ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.



There is established a Park Board of the City as an advisory body to advise
and assist the Council in exercising its power to establish, purchase,
maintain and regulate the use of swimming pools, parks and playgrounds, and
to provide swimming pool, recreational, and playground facilities.



23.02  COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.



The Park Board consists of seven members whose term of office is four years,
on a staggered basis, and who are appointed by the Mayor subject to the
approval of the Council.



(Ord. 1936 - May 18 Supp.)



23.03  ORGANIZATION.



The Board members shall organize as a board by the election of one of their
number as Chairperson and one as Secretary.



23.04  COMPENSATION.



All Board members shall serve without compensation except for their actual
expenses, which are subject to the approval of the Council.



23.05  PROGRAM PLANNING DUTY.



Subject to the approval of the Council, it shall be the duty of the Park
Board to plan the City’s parks and recreational programs, and to care for,
supervise, control and improve such parks and programs.



23.06  PRESCRIPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.



The Park Board may prescribe rules and regulations, in writing, for the
government of the park grounds and persons resorting thereto.  Such rules
and regulations are subject to the approval of the Council and may be enacted
into ordinance by the Council.



23.07  MEETINGS; FREQUENCY.



The Park Board shall meet at least once a month on a regular basis and at
such other time as may be necessary to properly carry out its duties.



23.08  MEETINGS; ABSENTEEISM.



Any member of the Park Board who is absent from three regularly scheduled
meetings of the Board during any one calendar year, without good cause, shall
be deemed to have vacated such office on the occasion of such third
absence.  The Chairperson shall, thereupon, immediately report such vacancy
to the Mayor, who, with the approval of the Council, shall fill such vacancy
for the unexpired term.



23.09  ANNUAL REPORT.



The Park Board shall make an annual report to the Council, which shall
contain a statement of its activities during the preceding year and
recommendations for proposed activities.



CHAPTER 24
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION



 

24.01  Purpose
 
24.06  Attorney


24.02  Appointment and Term
 
24.07  Records


24.03  Qualifications
 
24.08  Rooms and Supplies


24.04  Compensation
 
24.09  Powers and Duties


24.05  Chairperson; Clerk
 



 



24.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the appointment, powers, and
duties of a Civil Service Commission in accordance with the requirements of
State law.



24.02  APPOINTMENT AND TERM.



A Civil Service Commission consisting of three members shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council for staggered terms of four years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.1)



24.03  QUALIFICATIONS.



Commissioners must be citizens of Iowa, eligible electors, and residents of
the City preceding their appointment.  No person while on said Commission
shall hold or be a candidate for any office of public trust.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.2)



24.04  COMPENSATION.



Civil Service Commissioners shall serve without compensation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.2)



24.05  CHAIRPERSON; CLERK.



The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its members.  The City
Clerk or his/her designee shall be clerk of the Commission.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.4)



24.06  ATTORNEY.



The City Attorney shall be the attorney for the Commission and when requested
by the Commission shall present matters concerning civil service employees to
the Commission, except the Commission may hire a counselor or an attorney on
a per diem basis to represent it when in the opinion of the Commission there
is a conflict of interest between the Commission and the Council.  In the
event the Commission determines that there exists a conflict of interest, the
counselor or attorney hired by the Commission shall not be the City
Attorney.  The City shall pay the costs incurred by the Commission in
employing an attorney under this section.



24.07  RECORDS.



The Civil Service Commission shall keep a record of all its meetings and also
a complete individual service record of each civil service employee which
record shall be permanent and kept up to date.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.4)



24.08  ROOMS AND SUPPLIES.



The Council shall provide suitable rooms in which the Commission may hold its
meetings and supply the Commission with all necessary equipment and a
qualified shorthand reporter or an electronic voice-recording device to
enable it to properly perform its duties.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.5)



24.09  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The Commission shall administer the civil service procedure as contained in
Chapter 400, Code of Iowa, and amendments thereto and shall have, exercise
and perform all powers and duties as provided thereby. 



CHAPTER 25
ANKENY CULTURAL ARTS BOARD



 

25.01  Established; Purpose
 
25.04  Compensation


25.02  Composition; Terms of Office
 
25.05  Duties


25.03  Organization
 
25.06  Rules and Regulations



 



25.01  ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.



There is established an Ankeny Cultural Arts Board to oversee policy
implementation and review, to outline roles and responsibilities of the City
of Ankeny and partners in arts development and to make recommendation in the
areas of planning and fund allocation.



25.02  COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.



The Cultural Arts Board shall consist of nine members whose term of office is
four years on a staggered basis and who are appointed by the Mayor subject to
the approval of the Council.  The Mayor shall appoint said members who are
recognized for their interest and experience in connection with the
performing and fine arts, which a majority of the members shall be residents
of Ankeny.  In making appointments, due consideration shall be given to the
recommendations made by representatives of civic, educational and
professional associations and groups concerned or engaged in the production
or presentation of the performing and fine arts.



(Ord. 1936 - May 18 Supp.)



25.03  ORGANIZATION.



The Cultural Arts Board shall organize as a commission by election of one
member as Chairperson and one as Vice-Chairperson.




(Ord. 1826 - Oct. 14 Supp.)




25.04  COMPENSATION.



All Board members shall serve without compensation except for any actual
expenses, which shall be reimbursed, subject to the approval of the Council,
only from available funds on deposit with the City. 



25.05  DUTIES.



It shall be the duty of the Ankeny Cultural Arts Board to oversee quality
control on public art projects, with ultimate oversight resting with the
Ankeny City Council.  The Ankeny Cultural Arts Board shall be responsible
for developing funding policy, criteria, application procedures and
allocation of arts funds and services for approval by the City Council.  The
Ankeny Cultural Arts Board also shall assist in developing the aesthetic
character of the City by providing an arts perspective in the planning of
buildings, parks and public spaces.



25.06  RULES AND REGULATIONS.



The Ankeny Cultural Arts Board may, in writing, prescribe rules and
regulations for the conduct of its meetings and shall make an annual report
to the Council that shall contain a summary of its activities during the
preceding year and recommendations for proposed activities for the succeeding
year.



(Chapter 25 - Ord. 1762 - Jul. 13 Supp.)



CHAPTER 26
ANKENY SPORTS COMPLEX FOUNDATION, INC.



 

26.01  Established; Purpose
 
26.04  Compensation


26.02  Composition; Term of Office
 
26.05  Duties


26.03  Organization
 
26.06  Rules and Regulations



 



26.01  ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.



There is established a foundation of the City which shall serve as the
fundraising organization for the development of the Prairie Ridge Center
Sports Complex, and such foundation shall be known as the Ankeny Sports
Complex Foundation, Inc.



26.02  COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE.



The foundation shall consist of no less than nine and no more than twelve
directors of legal age.  Each director shall be appointed for three
consecutive years on a staggered basis.  One board director shall be
recommended by each of the following:  Ankeny Soccer Club, Ankeny Junior
Football, Ankeny Little League, Ankeny Girls Softball Association, and City
of Ankeny Park Board.  All appointments shall be made by the Mayor of the
City, subject to approval of the City Council.



26.03  ORGANIZATION.



The foundation shall organize as a nonprofit corporation.



26.04  COMPENSATION.



All members of the board of directors shall serve without compensation except
for their actual expenses, which shall be reimbursed only from available
funds of the foundation.  Funds available for this purpose shall be funds
deposited by or under the direction of the foundation through fundraising
activities, where such money is deposited and earmarked for such purpose. 
No tax revenue shall be used for payment of expenses.



26.05  DUTIES.



It shall be the duty of the foundation to raise funds for the development of
the Prairie Ridge Center Youth Sports Complex.



26.06  RULES AND REGULATIONS.



The foundation shall prescribe bylaws, in writing, for the conduct of its
meetings and shall make an annual report to the Council, which shall contain
a summary of its activities during the preceding year and recommendations for
proposed activities for the succeeding years.



CHAPTER 27
MAYOR’S YOUTH COUNCIL



 

27.01  Purpose
 
27.04  Duties


27.02  Composition
 
27.05  Additional Responsibilities


27.03  Organization
 
27.06  Requirements; Term of Members



 



27.01  PURPOSE.



There is established a Mayor’s Youth Council of the City to provide an
opportunity for the youth of Ankeny to acquire a greater knowledge of and
appreciation for their City government and their community leadership through
active participation and involvement.  Further, the Mayor’s Youth Council
is established to help the Mayor and City Council accomplish the goals of the
community by working directly with the representatives of the youth.  The
Mayor’s Youth Council shall also serve the youth of Ankeny by:



1.   Informing the City Council of the needs and wishes of the youth.



2.   Planning and implementing social, educational cultural and
recreational activities for the youth.



3.   Working with the Mayor, City Council, City administrators, Ankeny
schools, and the Chamber of Commerce to provide service and leadership
opportunities for the youth of Ankeny.



4.   Instilling a feeling of positive self-worth and esteem.



5.   Promoting a sense of civic involvement and community pride.



6.   Learning various aspects of community leadership.



27.02  COMPOSITION.



The Mayor’s Youth Council consists of fifteen representatives appointed by
the Mayor, with the assistance of an advisory committee.  The advisory
committee shall include one Council member, the City Manager, and two school
representatives, one from Northview Middle School and one from Ankeny High
School.  Appointments shall be presented to the City Council for final
approval.  The City Council shall authorize any finances needed for the
effective operation of the Youth Council, as requested by the Youth Council
and recommended by the City Manager.



27.03  ORGANIZATION.



The Mayor’s Youth Council shall organize as a board, with the election of a
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Recorder.  The responsibilities of the
Youth Council’s officers shall be as follows:



1.   Responsibility and authority of the Mayor’s Youth Council
Chairperson:



   A.   To plan and conduct all Youth Council meetings;



   B.   To carry out the decisions of the Youth Council;



   C.   To meet periodically with the City Manager to provide for
proper planning and coordination between the City Council and the Youth
Council;



   D.   To propose to the Youth Council plans and projects designated
to assist in the fulfillment of the purposes of the Youth Council;



   E.   To assign each Youth Council member areas of responsibility.



2.   Responsibility and Authority of the Mayor’s Youth Council Vice
Chairperson:



   A.   To perform the duties of the Youth Council’s Chairperson
during his/her absence.



3.   Responsibility and Authority of the Mayor’s Youth Council Recorder:



   A.   To attend all Youth Council meetings and take and maintain
minutes of the meetings;



   B.   To carry out assignments of the Mayor’s Youth Council;



   C.   To have all Youth Council’s records submitted to the City
Clerk monthly;



   D.   To submit a year-end report to the Mayor and City Council.



In addition, the Mayor’s Youth Council shall have at least one advisor. 
The advisor shall attend meetings and become involved, in an advisory role,
in all Youth Council activities.  The advisor shall be appointed by the
Mayor and City Manager, with the approval of the City Council.



27.04  DUTIES.



It shall be the duty of the Mayor’s Youth Council to:



1.   Meet at least once monthly to conduct business.



2.   Review and modify Youth Council Charter, as needed, by a majority
vote.



3.   Present to the Mayor and Council this charter and all amendments for
their approval.



4.   Nominate one of its members as a Chairperson, with final approval by
the Mayor.



5.   Nominate one of its members as a Vice Chairperson, with final
approval by the Mayor.



6.   Nominate one of its members to act as Recorder, with final approval
by the Mayor.



7.   Pass motions and resolutions as necessary by a majority vote.  A
majority vote is one vote more than half the quorum of voting members who are
present.



8.   Carry out the purpose of the Mayor’s Youth Council as outlined in
this charter.



9.   Develop and plan activities for the youth of the community,
coordinating all such activities with the Mayor and the Youth Council advisor.



10.   Report to the City Council.



27.05  ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.



The Mayor’s Youth Council must:



1.   Have a quorum in order to conduct business.  A majority of the total
number of members will constitute a quorum.  Without a quorum, no business
will be transacted and no official action on any matter will take place.



2.   Post agendas of all Youth Council meetings publicly at least two days
in advance of each meeting.



3.   Coordinate all activities with the Youth Council advisor and the
Mayor.



27.06  REQUIREMENTS; TERM OF MEMBERS.



In order to serve on the Mayor’s Youth Council, a youth must be a resident
within the City for at least one year and be in at least the ninth grade. 
In order to remain on the Youth Council, a youth must attend school in
Ankeny, must remain a resident within the City, attend at least seventy-five
percent of all Youth Council meetings, maintain at least a 2.0 grade point
average if in school, fulfill the responsibilities of the office held, and
set a proper example for the youth of the community.  Youth Council members
shall serve a term of one year, with unlimited subsequent terms with yearly
review by advisory committee.  A member of the Youth Council can be removed
from office upon violation of one or more of the above criteria and by a
majority vote of the Mayor’s Youth Council, with the final approval of the
Mayor and City Council.  Any vacancy on the Youth Council, either by removal
or resignation, shall be filled by the appointment of the Mayor, with final
approval by the City Council.  The requirements of the members of the
Mayor’s Youth Council are as follows:



1.   To attend Mayor’s Youth Council meetings;



2.   To carry out assignments of the Mayor’s Youth Council;



3.   To meet by appointment with the staff of the City in an effort to
accomplish the purpose of the Youth Council;



4.   To develop and plan, with the help of a committee, if necessary,
plans to accomplish effectively the Youth Council’s purposes outlined above.



CHAPTER 28
BOARD OF EXAMINERS AND APPEALS



 

28.01  Organization
 
28.06  Meetings


28.02  Powers and Duties
 
28.07  Rules and Regulations


28.03  Appeals
 
28.08  Legal Counsel


28.04  Quorum
 
28.09  Applicability


28.05  Vacancies
 



 



28.01  ORGANIZATION.



There is created a Board of Examiners and Appeals which consists of five
members, who are appointed by the Mayor with approval of the Council.  All
members are residents of the City.  Appointments are made for staggered
terms of three years.



28.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The Board of Examiners and Appeals shall have the following powers and duties:



1.   They shall decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by any member of
the staff of the City regarding the application or interpretation of any
provisions of Chapters 105, 175, 176, 177, 178, 179, and 180 of this Code of
Ordinances.



2.   They shall prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct of
examinations suitable to determine the qualifications of any applicant for
licenses granted under said chapters.



3.   They shall rule upon the qualifications of all applicants and certify
qualified applicants, together with their respective examination ratings, to
the appropriate City department within thirty days after the date upon which
such examination is held, after which the appropriate City official shall
cause such license to be issued.



4.   They may suspend or revoke any of the licenses or certificates
required by said chapters, for due cause, after notice and hearing as
provided by law.  Suspension shall be for any period up to six months, and
during the period of such suspension, the license of the offender shall be
void and the offender shall not perform any work for which a license is
required.  After the termination of such period of suspension, said license
shall be renewed, provided that all renewal fees which may be due thereon
have been paid.



28.03  APPEALS.



1.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by any member of the staff of the City shall
have the right to appeal to the Board by filing a written notice of such
appeal and by paying a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to the City Clerk
prior to the hearing of the appeal.  Said notice shall be filed with the
Clerk within ten days of the date of the order, requirement, decision, or
determination by the staff.



2.   If such a notice is filed, the Board shall set a time and place for
hearing, and shall notify, by ordinary mail, the party that has filed the
appeal of the time and place of such hearing.  The date of the hearing shall
not be more than fifteen days after the date the notice of appeal was
filed.  The hearing shall be open to the public and all interested persons
shall be given an opportunity to be heard.



3.   The Board, by a majority vote, shall affirm, modify, or reverse any
appealed ruling, decision, interpretation or order of the staff member.  The
Board may permit a variance from the strict terms and provisions of the code,
if such variance can be made without increasing the hazards to health or
safety of persons or property, and when the granting of such variance will
not violate the intent and purpose of the affected code.  Mere inconvenience
to the appellant shall not be grounds for the granting of such variance.



4.   The aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the Board to the
Council by filing written notice of appeal within ten days from the date of
the final action of the Board.  The Council shall give five days’ written
notice by ordinary mail to the appealing party, the Board, and the staff
member of the date, time, and place of hearing, at which time, all interested
persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard.  The Council shall
affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the Board.



28.04  QUORUM.



Three members of the Board of Examiners and Appeals shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of transacting all business that comes before the Board, but
any action taken by the Board shall require a majority vote of only those
attending such meeting or hearing.



28.05  VACANCIES.



All vacancies occurring on the Board by removal, resignation, or death shall
be filled by appointment as determined in Section 28.01.  Any member of the
Board may be removed by the City Council for malfeasance in office,
incapacity, or neglect of duty.



28.06  MEETINGS.



Special meetings of the Board may be called at any time by the Chairperson of
the Board, or upon written request of three members of the Board to the
Chairperson.  Meetings may also be called by the Clerk, upon receipt of a
petition.



28.07  RULES AND REGULATIONS.



The Board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its
meetings, and shall render all decisions, findings, and recommendations in
writing.  The City Council shall provide suitable rooms in which the Board
shall hold its meetings or hearings, and shall provide for the necessary
expenses incurred by the Board.



28.08  LEGAL COUNSEL.



The Board shall have the right to request the City Attorney to attend
meetings, or to provide legal opinions whenever the Board deems such
assistance appropriate.



28.09  APPLICABILITY.



When any provision of this Code makes reference to a “Board of Appeals,”
such reference shall be deemed to mean the Board of Examiners and Appeals
established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.



CHAPTER 29
AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION



 

29.01  Airport Zoning Commission
 
29.04  Rules and Regulations


29.02  Terms of Office
 
29.05  Powers of the Commission


29.03  Removal; Vacancies
 



 



29.01  AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION.



There shall be an Airport Zoning Commission consisting of five members, two
of whom shall be selected by the Board of Supervisors of the County, two of
whom shall be selected by the Council, and one additional member to act as
Chairperson shall be selected by a majority vote of the members selected by
the County and City as herein provided.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 329.9)



29.02  TERMS OF OFFICE.



The terms of the members of the Commission shall be four years. 
Appointments shall be made every two years of one-third the total number, or
as near as possible, to provide for staggered terms.



(Ord. 1936 - May 18 Supp.)



29.03  REMOVAL; VACANCIES.



Members of the Commission may be removed for cause by the appointing
authority upon written charges after public hearing.  Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term of any member whose office becomes vacant in
the same manner in which said member was selected.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 329.9)



29.04  RULES AND REGULATIONS.



The Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its
organization and procedure as may be necessary for the orderly conduct of its
meetings.



29.05  POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.



The Airport Zoning Commission shall have and possess the power to recommend
to the Council, from time to time as conditions require, adoption of and
amendments, supplements, changes or modifications to airport zoning
regulations, and further shall possess such other powers as may be incidental
to the powers vested in it, pursuant to Chapter 329 of the Iowa Code.



CHAPTER 30
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL



 

30.01  Purpose
 
30.04 Compensation


30.02  Composition and Terms of Office
 
30.05  Functions


30.03  Organization
 
30.06 Staff



 



30.01  PURPOSE.



There is established an Economic Development Council of the City which shall
serve as an advisory board to advise and assist the Economic Development
Department in the promotion of economic development within the City.  The
Economic Development Council shall study, review and prepare recommendations
for the City Council regarding matters of economic development policy.



30.02  COMPOSITION AND TERMS OF OFFICE.



The Economic Development Council consists of eleven members whose term of
office is three years on a staggered basis and who are appointed by the Mayor
subject to the approval of the City Council.  The Mayor shall appoint said
members who represent different perspectives that are relevant to economic
development in Ankeny.  Members of the Economic Development Council may
include nonresidents who work in Ankeny; however, a majority of the members
shall be residents of Ankeny.



30.03  ORGANIZATION.



Members of the Economic Development Council shall act by consensus through
meetings facilitated by staff.



30.04  COMPENSATION.



All members shall serve without compensation.



30.05  FUNCTIONS.



The duties of the Economic Development Council include, but are not limited
to:



1.   Propose an economic development action plan for the City to include
long-term strategies for economic development.



2.   Recommend economic development policies and programs to the City
Council.



3.   Work with the City's economic development staff in promoting the
City, attracting economic growth and development, and retaining businesses in
the community.



4.   Provide individual assistance with specific projects and strategy
development.



5.   Make an annual report to the City Council regarding economic
development achievements.



30.06  STAFF.



The City Manager shall assign one member of the Economic Development
Department staff to serve as staff liaison to the Economic Development
Council.



(Ch. 30 Added by Ord. 1681 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



CHAPTER 35
POLICE DEPARTMENT



 

35.01  Organization
 
35.06  Acting Police Chief


35.02  Peace Officer Qualifications
 
35.07  Departmental Rules


35.03  Required Training
 
35.08  Summoning Aid


35.04  Compensation
 
35.09  Taking Weapons


35.05  Police Chief Appointed
 
35.10  Obedience to Laws Required



 



35.01  ORGANIZATION.



The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by
the Council.



35.02  PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.



In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)



35.03  REQUIRED TRAINING.



All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of
employment.  Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training
as required by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11 [2])



(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)



35.04  COMPENSATION.



Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.



35.05  POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.



The City Manager shall appoint the Police Chief in accordance with the
provisions of Section 400.13 of the Code of Iowa, subject to Council approval.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.13)



35.06  ACTING POLICE CHIEF.



Whenever the Police Chief is unable to act or perform the duties of the
office for any reason (including those periods of time during which the City
Manager has not appointed a Police Chief), the City Manager may designate
some other member of the police department to carry out the duties of the
Police Chief.



35.07  DEPARTMENTAL RULES.



The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary
for the operation of the department.



35.08  SUMMONING AID.



Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the
arrest.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)



35.09  TAKING WEAPONS.



Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
which are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control to be disposed of according to law. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)



35.10  OBEDIENCE TO LAWS REQUIRED.



The Police Chief and members of the police department, in the performance of
their duties, shall abide by all applicable Federal laws, State laws, and
local ordinances.



CHAPTER 36
FIRE DEPARTMENT



 

36.01  Organization
 
36.07  Calls To Contracted Townships and Municipalities


36.02  Department Appointments
 
36.08  Mutual Aid


36.03  Training
 
36.09  Authority to Cite Violations


36.04  Compensation
 
36.10  Emergency Medical Service


36.05  Accidental Injury Insurance
 
36.11  Fire Department Standby Costs


36.06  Liability Insurance
 
36.12  Emergency Response Services



 



36.01  ORGANIZATION.



The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and
personnel as may be authorized by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



36.02  DEPARTMENT APPOINTMENTS.



1.   Fire Chief.  The City Manager shall appoint the Fire Chief pursuant
to Chapter 400 of the Code of Iowa, and subject to approval of the Council.



2.   Full-time Firefighters.  All full-time firefighters shall be
appointed by the Fire Chief pursuant to Chapter 400 of the Code of Iowa.



3.   Part-Time/Paid-Per-Call Firefighters.  All part-time/paid-per-call
firefighters shall be appointed by the Fire Chief subject to City Manager
approval. 



36.03  TRAINING.



All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



36.04  COMPENSATION.



Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by the City compensation plan.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



36.05  ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.



The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for
worker’s compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of
hospitalization, nursing, and medical attention for firefighters injured in
the performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.  All firefighters shall be covered by the
contract. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61 and Sec. 410.18)



36.06  LIABILITY INSURANCE.



The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 & 517A.1)



36.07  CALLS TO CONTRACTED TOWNSHIPS AND MUNICIPALITIES. 



The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies to provide
fire service to those townships and municipalities with which the City has
contracted for service.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 [2 & 3])



36.08  MUTUAL AID.



Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter
into 28E mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire
departments.  Copies of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 [2 & 3])



36.09  AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.



Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)



36.10  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE.



The department is authorized to provide emergency medical or rescue services,
and the accidental injury and liability insurance provided for herein shall
include such operation.



36.11  FIRE DEPARTMENT STANDBY COSTS.



The Ankeny Fire Department shall provide standby staffed fire apparatus or
emergency medical services (EMS) response equipment according to a fee
schedule established by resolution of the Council, as adopted from time to
time.  Said fees will be assessed when the Fire Department is requested to
stand by at events such as fireworks displays, special events, bonfires or
other events where standby equipment and personnel are desired by the
sponsoring agency.  Requests for other fire equipment will be billed at the
engine company rate.  Said fees may only be waived with recommendation by
the Fire Chief and final approval by the City Manager.



36.12  EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES.



The Fire Department shall provide emergency response services according to a
fee schedule established by resolution adopted by the Council.  Said fees
will be assessed when the Fire Department responds to fires involving any
motor vehicle or to a major motor vehicle crash that requires extrication of
victims who are entrapped in a vehicle.  Said fees may be waived with
recommendation of the Fire Chief and final approval of the City Manager.



CHAPTER 37
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS



 

37.01  Definitions
 
37.02  Cost of Cleanup or Abatement



 



37.01  DEFINITIONS.



For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Cleanup” means the removal of hazardous substances to the place
where the waste will not cause any danger to persons or the environment, in
accordance with State of Iowa statutes, rules and regulations therefor, or
the treatment of the material as defined in this chapter to eliminate the
hazardous conditions, including the restoration of the area to a general good
appearance without noticeable odor as far as practicable.  The term
“cleanup” includes all actions necessary to contain, collect, identify,
analyze, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous substance and to
restore the site from which such hazardous substance was cleaned up.



2.   “Emergency action” means any action taken at or near the scene of
a hazardous materials emergency incident to prevent or minimize harm to human
health, to property or to the environment from the unintentional or
intentional release of hazardous materials, by the cleanup or abatement of
such materials.



3.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage or release of a hazardous substance.



4.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of
substances that presents a danger to the public health or safety or
environment and includes but is not limited to a substance that is toxic,
corrosive, or flammable or that is an irritant or that in confinement,
generates pressure through decomposition, heat or other means.  The
following are examples of substances which, in sufficient quantity, may be
hazardous:  acids, alkalis, explosives, fertilizers, heavy metals such as
chromium, arsenic, mercury, lead and cadmium, industrial chemicals, paint
thinners, paints, pesticides, petroleum products, poisons, radioactive
materials, sludge and organic solvents.  The term “hazardous substance”
includes any hazardous waste identified or listed by the administrator for
the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through various
Federal statutes.



5.   “Responsible party” means any person who:



   A.   Owns or has custody of hazardous materials that are involved in
an incident requiring emergency action; or



   B.   Owns or has custody of bulk or non-bulk packaging or a
transport vehicle that contains hazardous materials and that is involved in
an incident requiring emergency action; and



   C.   Causes or substantially contributes to the cause of the
incident, whether intentionally or negligently.



37.02  COST OF CLEANUP OR ABATEMENT.



Any responsible person shall have the duty to reimburse the City for and
shall be liable for the payment of all costs incurred as a result of any
cleanup or abatement resulting from any emergency action taken by the City or
any agency at the direction of the City, including, but not limited to: 
actual labor costs of City personnel (including worker’s compensation
benefits, fringe benefits and administrative overhead) costs of equipment,
operation and materials obtained directly by the City, replacement of
expended supplies and other costs incurred.  Costs incurred under this
section shall not include costs of actual fire suppression services, which
are normally or usually provided by the Fire Department.  The City shall
prepare and forward to the responsible person a bill for the total costs and
expenses incurred for which such person is responsible pursuant to this
section; provided however, any cost in connection with any independent
cleanup contractor may be billed directly by such contractor.  Payment of
the total bill from the City shall be made within 30 days of receipt. 
Reimbursement of costs incurred by State or other agencies responding to any
such incidents through mutual aid agreements or other protocols is covered in
this section.  The City, its Fire Department, their officers, agents, and
employees shall not have any liability or responsibility for any claim,
injury or damage of any kind resulting from emergency action taken in
response to a hazardous materials incident to which they respond.



CHAPTER 38
FALSE FIRE ALARMS



 

38.01  Definitions
 
38.03  Evidence of Repair Accepted in Lieu of Fee


38.02  False Alarm Procedure and User Fee
 
38.04  Review of False Alarm Charge



 



38.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter:



1.   “False alarm” means the activation of a fire alarm system through
mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation, improper maintenance,
or the negligence of the owner or lessee of the fire alarm system or of his
or her employees or agents.  This does not include alarms caused by
unauthorized tampering with a fire alarm system by anyone other than the fire
alarm user or his or her agent.



2.   “Fire alarm system” means any assembly of equipment, mechanical
or electrical, installed by a fire alarm business, arranged to signal the
occurrence of a fire, smoke, water flow or other condition to which the Fire
Department may be expected to respond.



3.   “Fire alarm user” means a person that is in control of any
building, structure, or facility where a fire alarm system is present.



4.   “Testing and maintenance” means when an alarm service technician
or alarm company conducts fire alarm system testing.



5.   “Year” means a twelve-month period beginning with the first day
of July and ending on the last day of June of each year.



38.02  FALSE ALARM PROCEDURE AND USER FEE.



1.   Whenever Fire Department personnel respond to an activated fire alarm
system the fire official in charge of the incident shall determine if the
response was caused by a false alarm and shall indicate that fact upon the
incident report.



2.   The Fire Department shall regularly review incident reports to
monitor the accumulation of false alarms at any one location.  When two
false alarms have occurred at the same location within one year, and the
location is within the incorporated area of the City of Ankeny, the Fire
Department shall notify the fire alarm user by letter, citing the location
and date of each false alarm.  The letter shall recommend that appropriate
action be taken on the part of the fire alarm user to alleviate the causes of
false alarms and shall include a statement that an accumulation of more than
three (3) false alarms within a year shall result in a charge for services. 
Another similar letter shall be sent when three false alarms have occurred at
the same location within the year.



3.   When four false alarms have occurred at one location within a year, a
user fee for service for false alarm response shall be billed to the property
owner.  Each additional false alarm within the year shall require the
billing of an additional fee.  However, no fire alarm user shall be charged
with accumulating more than one false alarm in any 24-hour period.  In the
event that payment of the fee is not made within thirty (30) days of billing,
an administrative charge for collection shall be assessed.  All fees shall
be established by resolution of the Council, as adopted from time to time. 
The fee hereby established affords only partial recovery of the expenses
incurred in responding to the false alarm.



4.   Whenever Fire Department personnel respond to a fire alarm that has
been activated due to testing and maintenance, the fire official in charge of
the incident shall determine if the response resulted from failure to make
the proper notification to the Polk County Communication Center and shall so
indicate on the incident report.  Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other section of this chapter, if a fire alarm is activated due to testing
and maintenance and the Polk County Communication Center was not given proper
notification, a user fee established by resolution will be imposed upon each
false alarm.  The responsible party will be the agency, testing or
maintenance company representative, or individual that initiated the alarm
testing or maintenance.



38.03  EVIDENCE OF REPAIR ACCEPTED IN LIEU OF FEE.



An alarm user may submit evidence that a malfunctioning system has been
repaired in lieu of paying a user fee within ten (10) days of the date of
notification of the fee.  Evidence such as a receipt from a licensed alarm
business with a statement of repairs made to the system is acceptable.  For
a repeated problem with a system after a repair is alleged to have been made,
the City Manager may decide not to accept an alternative to paying the fee.



38.04  REVIEW OF FALSE ALARM CHARGE.



Any person may appeal the imposition of the fee to the City Manager.  A
false alarm user shall appeal in writing and such appeal shall be made to the
City Manager within ten (10) days of the date of notification of the fee.



CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE



 

40.01  Assault
 
40.05  Failure to Disperse


40.02  Harassment
 
40.06  Parties to Municipal Ordinance Violations


40.03  Disorderly Conduct
 
40.07  Extreme Fighting Contests


40.04  Unlawful Assembly
 



 



40.01  ASSAULT.



No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:



1.   Pain or Injury.  Any act which is intended to cause pain or injury
to, or which is intended to result in physical contact which will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to
execute the act.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])



2.   Threat of Pain or Injury.  Any act which is intended to place
another in fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful,
injurious, insulting, or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to
execute the act.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])



However, where the person doing any of the above enumerated acts, and such
other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk
or serious injury or breach of the peace, the act is not an assault. 
Provided, where the person doing any of the above enumerated acts is employed
by a school district or accredited nonpublic school, or is an area education
agency staff member who provides services to a school or school district, and
intervenes in a fight or physical struggle, or other disruptive situation
that takes place in the presence of the employee or staff member performing
employment duties in a school building, on school grounds or at an official
school function regardless of the location, the act is not an assault,
whether the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is
between students or other individuals if the degree and the force of the
intervention is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the
safety of those assembled.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)



40.02  HARASSMENT.



No person shall commit harassment.



1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:



   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing or
via electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner
likely to cause the other person annoyance or harm.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)



   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device
in or near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car,
or boat occupied by the other person.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)



   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)



   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a
criminal act, knowing the same did not occur.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)



2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person.  As used in this
section, unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means
an encounter in which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity
to each other.  “Personal contact” does not require a physical touching
or oral communication, although it may include these types of contacts.



40.03  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.



No person shall do any of the following:



1.   Fighting.  Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public
place or in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that
participants in athletic contests may engage in such conduct which is
reasonably related to that sport.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])



2.   Noise.  Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence
or public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants
thereof. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])



3.   Abusive Language.  Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture which the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke
a violent reaction by another.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])



4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly.  Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])



5.   False Report of Catastrophe.  By words or action, initiate or
circulate a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe,
knowing such report to be false or such warning to be baseless.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])



6.   Disrespect of Flag.  Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the
United States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol
of the United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use
will provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault.  As used in
this subsection:



   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.



   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.



   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material
designed to be flown from a pole or mast.



   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to
make imperfect.



   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or
trample.



   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or
intentionally cause a machine, vehicle, or animal to read upon.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])



7.   Obstruct Use of Street.  Without authority or justification,
obstruct any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent
to prevent or hinder its lawful use by others.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])



8.   Funeral or Memorial Service.  Within 500 feet of the building or
other location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or
within 500 feet of a funeral procession or burial:



   A.   Make loud and raucous noise which causes unreasonable distress
to the persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in
the funeral procession.



   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture which
the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.



   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession or burial.



This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession or
burial.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)



40.04  UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.



It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or
any of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of
them will commit a public offense.  No person shall willingly join in or
remain part of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to
believe it is such.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)



40.05  FAILURE TO DISPERSE.



A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to
disperse.  No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to
obey.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3) 



40.06  PARTIES TO MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.



Whoever is concerned in the commission of a municipal ordinance violation is
a principal and may be charged with and convicted of the commission of the
violation even though such person did not directly commit it and although the
person who directly committed it has not been convicted or has been convicted
of some other degree of crime or ordinance violation or of some other crime
or ordinance violation based on the same act.  A person is concerned in the
commission of a municipal ordinance violation if such person:



1.   Directly commits the ordinance violation; or



2.   Intentionally aids and abets the commission of it; or



3.   Is a party to a conspiracy with another to commit it or advises,
hires, counsels or otherwise procures another to commit it.  Such a party is
also concerned in the commission of any other municipal ordinance violation
which is committed in pursuant of the intended violation and which under the
circumstances is a natural and probable consequence of the intended offense. 



This section does not apply to a person who voluntarily changes his or her
mind and no longer desires that the violation be committed and notifies the
other parties concerned of his or her withdrawal within a reasonable time
before the commission of the violation so as to allow the others also to
withdraw.



40.07  EXTREME FIGHTING CONTESTS.



No person shall hold, promote, or participate in an extreme fighting contest
within the City.  For purposes of this section, “extreme fighting
contest” means any amateur contest in which a person delivers – or is not
forbidden by the rules of such contest from delivering – kicks, punches or
blows of any kind to the body of an opponent.  Extreme fighting contests may
also be described as “no-holds-barred,” “no rules,” “ultimate
fighting,” “extreme fighting” or “shoot boxing.”  The term
“extreme fighting contest” shall specifically exclude boxing, wrestling,
or martial arts provided that such activities are conducted before a licensed
official or in accordance with official rules adopted by a nationally
recognized organization.  Any person violating this section commits a simple
misdemeanor.



CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY



 



41.01  Distributing Dangerous Substances
 
41.09  Discharging Weapons


41.02  False Reports to or Communications with Public Safety Entities
 
41.10  Throwing and Shooting


41.03  Refusing to Assist Officer
 
41.11  Hunting and Trapping


41.04  Harassment of Public Officers and Employees
 
41.12  Urinating and Defecating


41.05  Interference with Official Acts
 
41.13  Fireworks


41.06  Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators
 
41.14  Smoking Prohibited


41.07  Antenna and Radio Wires
 
41.15  Underage Drinking Parties


41.08  Barbed Wire and Electric Fences
 
41.16  Public Exposure




 



41.01  DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.



No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)



41.02  FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.



No person shall do any of the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)



1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire
department, a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity,
knowing that the information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a
criminal act knowing the act did not occur.



2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information
or assistance. 



3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.



41.03  REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.



Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make
an arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required.  No person shall unreasonably and without lawful
cause, refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)



41.04  HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.



No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)



41.05  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.



No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be
a peace officer, emergency medical care provider or firefighter, whether paid
or volunteer, in the performance of any act which is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency medical care provider or
firefighter, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution
by any authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any
court.  The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do
not include verbal harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by
a present ability and apparent intention to execute a verbal threat
physically. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)



41.06  ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.



No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings
on premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended
and so accessible to children, unless the door of the refrigerator has been
removed and the hinges sufficiently damaged to make replacement impossible.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)



41.07  ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.



It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground or public building without written
consent of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])



41.08  BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.



It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of ten (10) acres or more and is used as agricultural land.



41.09  DISCHARGING WEAPONS.



It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns or other firearms of any kind within the City limits.



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



41.10  THROWING AND SHOOTING.



It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.  This section shall not apply to the shooting of
arrows under the direction of a certified public school teacher in the
municipal recreation program or public school physical education program.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2])



41.11  HUNTING AND TRAPPING. 



1.   Definition.  Hunting is defined as pursuing, killing, trapping,
snaring, netting, searching for or shooting at, stalking or lying in wait for
any game, animal or bird protected by the State laws or rules adopted by the
Department of Natural Resources, whether or not such animal is then
subsequently captured, killed or injured.



2.   Prohibition.  It is unlawful for a person to hunt or trap within the
City limits or to use any weapons, including snares, traps, pits or other
devices capable of killing or injuring an animal.  Live trapping of animals
that does not cause injury to animals is allowed.  Hunting with firearms
within City limits is prohibited.  Written consent of the Police Chief is
required to discharge a firearm manufactured for the control of geese or
waterfowl even if the firearm is non-lethal and cannot cause death or injury
upon any human being or animal.



3.   Special Permits.  Special permits by order of the Council may be
issued from time to time to allow a special hunting season in the City limits
to cull an overpopulated deer herd, or goose population only if the hunting
is done with a bow and arrow.



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



41.12  URINATING AND DEFECATING.



It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land, including
golf courses.



41.13  FIREWORKS.



The sale, use or exploding of fireworks within the City is subject to the
following:



1.   Definition. 



   A.   “Consumer Fireworks” means those fireworks as defined by
Iowa Code Section 727.2 that may be sold within the City even though the use
of those items is prohibited.



   B.   “First-class Consumer Fireworks” means the following
Consumer Fireworks, as described in the American Pyrotechnics Association’s
standard 87-1, Chapter 3:



      (1)   Serial shell kits and reloadable tubes.



      (2)   Chasers.



      (3)   Helicopter and aerial spinners.



      (4)   Firecrackers.



      (5)   Mine and shell devices.



      (6)   Missile type rockets.



      (7)   Roman candles.



      (8)   Skyrockets and bottle rockets.



      (9)   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph (b) that are
manufactured in accordance with APA 87-1, Section 3.5.



   C.   “Second-class Consumer Fireworks” means the following
Consumer Fireworks, as described in APA 87-1, Chapter 3:



      (1)   Cone fountains.



      (2)   Cylindrical fountains.



      (3)   Flitter sparklers.



      (4)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including
multiple tube ground and  hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured
in accordance with APA 87-1, Section 3.5.



      (5)   Ground spinners.



      (6)   Illuminating torches.



      (7)   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA 87-1,    Section 3.2.



      (8)   Wheels.



      (9)   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as
novelties pursuant to APA 87-1, section 3.2.



   D.   “Display Fireworks” means those fireworks as defined by
Iowa Code Section 727.2(1)(b).



(Ord. 1916 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



2.   Regulations. 



   A.   Except between 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 p.m. on July 4 th, it shall
be unlawful for any person to use or explode any explosive, explosive
material, First-class Consumer Fireworks or Second-class Consumer Fireworks
within the corporate limits of the City.



   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any explosive, explosive
material, First-class Consumer Fireworks or Second-class Consumer Fireworks
within the corporate limits of the City unless granted a permit as provided
in Section 192.13 of the Ankeny Municipal Code.  Sales of Display Fireworks
may be made for that purpose only.



   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or explode any
Display Fireworks within the corporate limits of the City unless, upon
application in writing, the City has issued a permit to a City agency, fair
association, amusement park or other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by City authorities to display fireworks and such display will be
handled by a competent operator.



(Ord. 1916 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



3.   Exceptions.  This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident,
dealer, manufacturer or jobber of such fireworks as are not prohibited; or
the sale of any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or
the sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theatre, or for signal
purposes in athletic sports or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or
by a recognized military organization.  This section does not apply to any
substance or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation
purposes. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)



41.14  SMOKING PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any person to smoke or to carry any lighted cigar, pipe,
or cigarette in any motor bus, or in a building area, or any other place in
the City where the owner or the person in charge thereof has caused to be
displayed a sign reading “No Smoking Municipal Ordinance.”  Such sign
shall be placed so that it is clearly visible to the passengers of such bus
or the occupants of such building area or place.



41.15  UNDERAGE DRINKING PARTIES.



Any adult who hosts a liquor party or otherwise knowingly provides private
property (including a house, apartment, building, or land) for the
consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons under the age of 21 is in
violation of this Code of Ordinances and may be charged with a simple
misdemeanor.



41.16    PUBLIC EXPOSURE.



1.   Except as provided in this section, no person shall expose the
following parts of such person's body to another in any public place or in
any place where such exposure either is seen by another person located in a
public place or is seen on private property across a real property boundary:



   A.   A woman's nipple, the areola thereof, or full breast, except as
necessary in the breast feeding of a baby.



   B.   The pubic hair, pubes, perineum, or anus of a male or female;
the penis or scrotum of a male; or the vagina of a female, excepting such
body parts of prepubescent infants of either sex.



2.   This section shall not apply to limited or minimal exposures incident
to the use of public restrooms or locker rooms or such other places where
such exposures occur incident to the prescribed use of those facilities.



3.   This section shall not apply to exposures occurring in live stage
plays, live theatrical performances, or live dance performances conducted in
a theater, concert hall or similar establishment which is primarily devoted
to theatrical performances.



(Ord. 1931 - Feb. 18 Supp.)



CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY



 

42.01  Trespassing
 
42.07  Vendors Standing in Traffic


42.02  Criminal Mischief
 
42.08  Fundraising on Public Property


42.03  Defacing Proclamations or Notices
 
42.09  Window Peeping


42.04  Unauthorized Entry
 
42.10  Students Suspended or Expelled


42.05  Fraud
 
42.11  Other Public Property Offenses


42.06  Theft
 



 



42.01  TRESPASSING.



It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the property of
another.  As used in this section, the term “property” includes any
land, park land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary
or permanent structure whether publicly or privately owned.  The term
“trespass” means one or more of the following acts:



(Code of Iowa Sec. 716.7 and 716.8)



1.   Entering Property without Permission.  Entering upon or in property
without the express permission of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful
possession with the intent to commit a public offense or to use, remove
therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place thereon or therein anything
animate or inanimate.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])



2.   Entering or Remaining on Property.  Entering or remaining upon or in
property without justification after being notified or requested to abstain
from entering or to remove or vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession, or by any peace officer, magistrate, or public
employee whose duty it is to supervise the use or maintenance of the property.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])



3.   Interfering with Lawful Use of Property.  Entering upon or in
property for the purpose or with the effect of unduly interfering with the
lawful use of the property by others.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2c])



4.   Using Property Without Permission.  Being upon or in property and
wrongfully using, removing therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or
placing thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate, without the implied
or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2d])



None of the above shall be construed to prohibit entering upon the property
of another for the sole purpose of retrieving personal property which has
accidentally or inadvertently been thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the
property of another, provided that the person retrieving the property takes
the most direct and accessible route to and from the property to be
retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is possible, and does not unduly
interfere with the lawful use of the property.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[3])



42.02  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.



It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



42.03  DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.



It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law
of the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or
by order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



42.04  UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.



No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises, or grounds are closed and not open to the public.  When
open to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also
constitutes an unauthorized entry.



42.05  FRAUD.



It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8) 



42.06  THEFT.



It is unlawful for any person to commit theft, including the theft of
services, as defined in Section 714.1 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1) 



42.07  VENDORS STANDING IN TRAFFIC.



No person shall occupy the public street for the purpose of selling
merchandise. 2



42.08  FUNDRAISING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.



No organization shall conduct a fundraising event on any street, sidewalk,
alley, or other City property without first obtaining written approval from
the Council.  Any person who participates in any fundraising event conducted
on any street, sidewalk, alley or other City property shall wear a reflective
vest.



42.09  WINDOW PEEPING.



Any person who trespasses on the private property of another and knowingly
views, watches, observes, photographs or films another person when that
person is inside a dwelling, and the person being viewed does not consent or
is unable to consent to being viewed, observed, watched, photographed or
filmed, is guilty of window peeping.



42.10  STUDENTS SUSPENDED OR EXPELLED.



Any student who is suspended or currently expelled from school shall remain a
distance of 1,000 feet away from any school property while school is in
session, unless officially requested by proper authorities to be present on
the school property.  This section does not apply if the student resides or
works within 1,000 feet of the school property, except that such student
shall remain off school property while suspended or expelled.



42.11  OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.



The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions which are also
deemed to be public property offenses:



1.   Chapter 21 – Library



   A.   Section 21.10 – Injury to Books or Property



   B.   Section 21.11 – Theft of Library Property



2.   Chapter 110 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling



   A.   Section 110.08 – Littering Prohibited



   B.   Section 110.09 – Open Dumping Prohibited



3.   Chapter 150 – Street Use and Maintenance



   A.   Section 150.01 – Removal of Warning Devices



   B.   Section 150.02 – Obstructing or Defacing



   C.   Section 150.03 – Placing Debris On



   D.   Section 150.04 – Playing In



   E.   Section 150.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley



   F.   Section 150.08 – Burning Prohibited



   G.   Section 150.11 – Dumping of Snow



4.   Chapter 152 – Sidewalk Regulations



   A.   Section 152.12 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements



   B.   Section 152.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks



   C.   Section 152.16 – Defacing



   D.   Section 152.17 – Debris on Sidewalks



   E.   Section 152.18 – Merchandise Display



   F.   Section 152.19 – Sales Stands



 


Notes

2 
† EDITOR’S NOTE:  See also Section 132.20.



CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA



 

43.01  Purpose
 
43.04  Determining Factors


43.02  Controlled Substance Defined
 
43.05  Possession of Drug Paraphernalia


43.03  Drug Paraphernalia Defined
 
43.06  Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For Sale



 



43.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent to
use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.



43.02  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.



The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the
term “controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is
hereafter amended.



43.03  DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.



The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all
equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for
use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing,
containing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.  It includes, but is not
limited to:



1.   Growing Kits.  Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance
can be derived.



2.   Processing Kits.  Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use
in manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or
preparing controlled substances.



3.   Isomerization Devices.  Isomerization devices used, intended for
use, or designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant
which is a controlled substance.



4.   Testing Equipment.  Testing equipment used, intended for use, or
designed for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness
or purity of controlled substances.



5.   Scales.  Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for
use in weighing or measuring controlled substances.



6.   Diluents.  Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.



7.   Separators; Sifters.  Separation gins and sifters used, intended for
use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise
cleaning or refining marijuana.



8.   Mixing Devices.  Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing
devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.



9.   Containers.  Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers
used, intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.



10.   Storage Containers.  Containers and other objects used, intended
for use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.



11.   Injecting Devices.  Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects
used, intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting
controlled substances into the human body.



12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device.  Objects used, intended for use, or
designed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin,
marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:



   A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;



   B.   Water pipes;



   C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;



   D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;



   E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;



   F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;



   G.   Chamber pipes;



   H.   Carburetor pipes;



   I.   Electric pipes;



   J.   Air driven pipes;



   K.   Chillums;



   L.   Bongs;



   M.   Ice pipes or chillers.



43.04  DETERMINING FACTORS.



In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in
addition to all other logically relevant factors:



1.   Statements.  Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.



2.   Prior Convictions.  Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object under any State or federal law relating to
any controlled substance.



3.   Proximity to Violation.  The proximity of the object, in time and
space, to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter
124 of the Code of Iowa.



4.   Proximity to Substances.  The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.



5.   Residue.  The existence of any residue of controlled substances on
the object.



6.   Evidence of Intent.  Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent
of an owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons
whom he or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124
of the Code of Iowa.



7.   Innocence of an Owner.  The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug
paraphernalia.



8.   Instructions.  Instructions, oral or written, provided with the
object concerning its use.



9.   Descriptive Materials.  Descriptive materials accompanying the
object which explain or depict its use.



10.   Advertising.  National and local advertising concerning its use.



11.   Displayed.  The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.



12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer.  Whether the owner, or anyone in
control of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to
the community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.



13.   Sales Ratios.  Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of
sales of the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.



14.   Legitimate Uses.  The existence and scope of legitimate uses for
the object in the community.



15.   Expert Testimony.  Expert testimony concerning its use.



43.05  POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.



It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.



43.06  MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.



It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or
knowing that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation
of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.



CHAPTER 44
NOISE CONTROL



 

44.01  Purpose
 
44.06  Noise Permit for Sound Equipment


44.02  Scope of Regulations
 
44.07  Exceptions to this Chapter


44.03  Definitions
 
44.08  Powers and Duties of the Noise Control Officer


44.04  Noise Disturbance Prohibited
 
44.09  Sound Levels by PlaceNameplaceReceiving PlaceTypeLand Use


44.05  Sounds Not Allowed
 



 



44.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the control of
excessive sound and vibration in the City thereby protecting the public’s
health, safety, and general welfare.



(Ord. 1660 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



44.02  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.



This chapter applies to the control of all noise originating within the
limits of the City, except in the following cases: 



1.   A State or Federal agency has adopted a different standard or rule
than prescribed within this chapter which preempts the regulation of noise
from a particular source so as to render this chapter inapplicable, or



2.   The Council has determined that, by reason of public acceptance of
the activity producing a particular noise or noises, such noise is deemed
acceptable to the residents of the City.



44.03  DEFINITIONS.



Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions of technical terms used in this chapter which are not herein
defined shall be obtained from publications of acoustical terminology issued
by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI):



1.   “Application” means the application submitted to the City
requesting a noise permit.



2.   “Emergency” means any occurrence or set of circumstances
involving actual or imminent physical or psychological trauma or property
damage which demands immediate action.



3.   “Emergency work” means any work performed for the purpose of
alleviating or resolving an emergency.



4.   “Motorcycle” means any two or three-wheeled motor vehicle.



5.   “Motor vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed to carry
at least one passenger or driver and of the type typically licensed for use
on the public highways. (Note: “motor vehicle” includes most motorcycles.)



6.   “Noise” means any sound which disturbs humans or which causes or
tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.



7.   “Noise Control Officer” means the official of the Ankeny Police
Department having lead responsibility for administration and enforcement of
this chapter.



8.   “Noise disturbance” means those sounds defined as “sounds not
allowed” Section 44.05 of this chapter.



9.   “Person” means, unless used in such a manner to denote only a
human being, any firm, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust or other association or entity, City,
County or State government and subdivisions or agencies thereof, and the
Federal government and subdivisions and agencies thereof.



10.   “Powered model vehicle” means any self-propelled, airborne,
waterborne or land-borne model plane, vessel or vehicle which is not designed
to carry persons, including but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car
or rocket.



11.   “Public right-of-way” means the traveled portion of any street
or alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by the City or other
governmental entity. 



12.   “Real property boundary” means an imaginary line along the
ground surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property
owned by one person from that owned by another person, but not including
intra-building real property division.



13.   “Recreational vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed
to carry at least one passenger or driver and equipped for use in racing or
other recreational events or uses off of public right-of-way on public or
private property; except, however, for the purposes of this chapter, any such
vehicle which is licensed for use on the public highways is deemed a “motor
vehicle” (or “motorcycle” if two or three-wheeled) and not a
“recreational vehicle.” (Examples of recreational vehicles are
snowmobiles, mini-bikes, stockcars, or motorboats.)



14.   “Residential property” means any property on which is located a
building or structure used wholly or partially for living or sleeping
purposes.



15.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal
forces that cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description
of sound may include any characteristic of such sound, including duration,
intensity, and frequency.



16.   “Sound equipment” means any radio, record player, tape deck or
player, loud speaker, amplifier, sound track or other device for producing,
reproducing or amplifying sound, except; however, “sound equipment” does
not include sirens and other equipment used to alert persons to the existence
of an emergency; equipment used by law enforcement and other public safety
officials in the performance of their official duties; church carillons,
bells or chimes; mobile radio or telephone signaling devices; and automobile
and truck radios, tape decks or players or other such standard equipment used
and intended for the use and enjoyment of the occupants provided that the
sound emitted therefrom is not audible for more than fifty (50) feet from
such automobile or truck.



17.   “Sound level” means the weighted sound pressure level obtained
by the use of a sound level meter and frequency-weighting network, such as A
or C, as specified in the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
specifications for sound level meters, or latest approved revision thereof.



18.   “Sound level meter” means an ANSI  Type 1 or Type 2 approved
instrument which includes a microphone, sound pressure detector, integrator
or time averaging device, output meter, and weighting networks used to
measure different kinds of noise.



19.   “Sound pressure” means the instantaneous difference between the
actual pressure and the average barometric pressure of a given point in
space, as produced by sound energy.



20.   “Vibration” means an oscillatory motion of solid bodies of
deterministic or random nature described by displacement, velocity, or
acceleration with respect to a given reference point.



21.   “Leq” is the equivalent continuous noise level as measured over
a period of time providing the same total energy as the actual fluctuating
noise and translated to decibels on a sound level meter.



(Ord. 1850 – Jul. 15 Supp.)



44.04  NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any person to willfully make, continue, cause, or allow
any noise disturbance within the City.



44.05  SOUNDS NOT ALLOWED.



The term “noise disturbance” means any of the following sounds:



1.   Alarm Testing. The sound emitted by the intentional sounding outdoors
of any privately-owned fire alarm, burglar alarm, siren, whistle, or similar
stationary emergency signaling device for the essential testing of such
device, when conducted between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.



2.   Automobile Radios. The sound emitted by an automobile or truck radio,
tape deck or compact disk player, or other such standard equipment used and
intended for the use and enjoyment of such vehicle’s occupants, if the
sound emitted therefrom is audible for more than 50 feet, at all times.



3.   Chain Saws.  The sound emitted by motor-powered tree trimming
equipment operated between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.



4.   Construction Noise.  The sound made by privately owned and operated
tools or equipment in the erection, demolition, excavation, drilling, or
other such construction work, which is received between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weeknights and between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.



5.   Engine Brake Noise.  The sound made by an engine brake device of a
diesel engine truck, at all times.



6.   Engine Repairs and Testing.  The sound made by the repairing,
rebuilding, modifying, or testing a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle
which is received between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.



7.   Injurious or Disturbing Sounds Generally.  Any sound which endangers
or injures the health, safety or welfare of a human being, disturbs a
reasonable human being of normal sensitivities, or causes or tends to cause
an adverse physiological or physical effect on human beings, or devalues or
injures property, at all times.



8.   Lawn and Garden Equipment.  The sound emitted by motor-powered,
muffler-equipped, lawn and garden equipment operated between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.  Golf courses are exempt from lawn mower operation
restrictions.



9.   Power Snow Removal Equipment.  The sound of power snow-removal
equipment in residential areas, between 12:00 midnight and 5:30 a.m.



10.   Loading and Unloading.  The sound made by outdoor loading,
unloading, opening, closing, or handling of boxes, crates, containers,
building materials, trash cans, receptacles, and/or dumpsters, between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless the activity is occurring on property
zoned as retail, commercial or industrial which shall be exempt from time
provisions.



(Ord. 1727 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



11.   Musical Instruments.  The sound made by a drum, horn, reed and/or
string instrument, or other musical instrument or device, which is received
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.



12.   Noisy Exhaust System.  The sound made bya motor vehicle or a
recreational vehicle whose exhaust system is defective or has been modified
bythe installation ofa muffler cutout or bypass, at all times.



13.   Off-road Motorcycle and Recreational Vehicle Noise.  The sound made
on private or City-owned property other than a public right-of-way by a
motorcycle or recreational vehicle and received between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., provided; however, the sound made by a motorcycle when
traveling from private property to a public right-of-way, or vice versa, in
pursuance of normal ingress or egress for purposeful transportation is not a
“noise disturbance” unless made so by some provisions of this section.



14.   Powered Model Vehicles.  The sound made by the operation of a
powered model vehicle which is received between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.



15.   Racing.  The sound made by a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle
on private property or public right-of-way during any racing event or time
trial, whether organized or unorganized, at all times.



16.   Screeching Tires.  The sound made by the intentional screeching or
squealing of the tires of a motor vehicle, at all times.



17.   Selling by “Hawking” or “Barking.”  The sound of selling by
shout or outcry when made within the area of the City zoned residential or
commercial, at all times.



18.   Sound Equipment.  The sound made by sound equipment (see definition
under Section 44.03(15) operated upon the public right-of-way, or in any
building, or upon any public or private premises, if plainly audible from any
public right-of-way within the City, unless the person using, operating, or
causing to be used or operated, the sound equipment possesses a current noise
permit and the actual use or operation of such sound equipment is not
inconsistent with the statements made in the application, the conditions
imposed in the noise permit, or the limitations specified in Section 44.06 of
this chapter, at all times.



44.06  NOISE PERMIT FOR SOUND EQUIPMENT.



No person shall use, operate or cause to be used or operated any sound
equipment upon the public right-of-way, in any building or upon any public or
private premises, if the sound emitted is plainly audible from the public
right-of-way within the City, unless such person has obtained a noise permit
in accordance with this section, and the actual use or operation of such
sound equipment is not inconsistent with the statements made in the
application, the conditions imposed in the sound equipment permit or the
limitations specified in subsection 4 of this section.  A noise permit shall
not be transferable, and it shall be conspicuously displayed on or adjacent
to the sound equipment.



1.   Application for Permit. Applications for noise permits shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk and shall contain the following information:



   A.   Name, address, phone numbers, and signature of applicant.



   B.   The purpose for which the sound equipment will be used.



   C.   The location where the sound equipment will be used.



   D.   The proposed hours of operation of the sound equipment, which
shall be limited to six (6) hours.



   E.   A general description of the sound equipment, including the
license number of any motor vehicle upon which it is to be operated.



   F.   The name, address, phone number and a letter of written
permission from the building and/or property owner if the noise permit is
issued for a location that is not owned or leased by the applicant.



   G.   Any other information as may be required by the City Clerk.



   H.   Permit applications and fees must be received at least ten (10)
business days before the event.



2.   Permit Fee.  The permit fee shall be paid by the applicant for the
permit upon submission of the application. The fee for the permit shall be
$50.00. The permit fee shall be nonrefundable.  No fee is required for a
noise permit issued to City, State or Federal government or any governmental
subdivision or agency thereof.



3.   Issuance of Permit. Applications for noise permits shall be reviewed
and then issued or denied by the City Clerk.  The applicant or site location
for a noise permit event shall be limited to no more than six (6) permits
annually.  Applications submitted that exceed the six (6) permits annually
shall require approval by the city council at their next regular council
meeting.



4.   Appeal. If the City Clerk refuses to issue a license, the City Clerk
shall make a part of the record the reasons therefor.  The applicant shall
have a right to appeal the Council at its next regular meeting.  The Council
may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the City Clerk by majority
vote of the Council members present and the City Clerk shall carry out the
decision of the Council.



5.   Limitations.  Any other language in this section to the contrary
notwithstanding, a sound equipment permit shall not be issued if:



   A.   The sound to be emitted by the sound equipment is other than
human speech or music.



   B.   The sound equipment is to be operated for commercial
advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting the attention of the
public to any building, structure, or vehicle for monetary profit or for the
purpose of advertising such sound equipment.



   C.   The sound to be emitted by the sound equipment would be a noise
disturbance under Section 44.05 of this chapter (other than subsection 18 of
said section).



A noise permit issued in violation of this subsection 5 is void and of no
force and effect.



6.   Conditions.  The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may
impose reasonable conditions and requirements to be met or fulfilled by the
noise permit holder preliminary to or at the time of the use or operation of
the sound equipment. Such conditions and requirements shall be those
necessary or advisable to protect the health, welfare and quality of life of
the residents of the City and may include, without limitation, setbacks,
fences, walls or other screening necessary to mitigate noise, restrictions on
the time of day the sound equipment can be used or operated, restrictions on
the level of the sound to be produced and restrictions on the number of
minutes or consecutive minutes (or other units of time) that the sound
equipment may be used or operated during any one hour or day (or other units
of time).



7.   Time.  Noise permits shall not extend after 9:00 p.m. on a weeknight
or after 11:00 p.m. on a weekend night or on the night prior to a holiday or
the night of a holiday, except in unusual circumstances, for good cause shown
and approved by the City Council at their next regular council meeting. 
Weeknight includes Sunday through Thursday and Weekend night includes Friday
through Saturday.  Notwithstanding the preceding, the hours set out in a
Noise Permit issued to a permittee that has been issued a Special Use Permit
in accordance with 196.02(I) shall not exceed those hours granted in the
Special Use Permit.




(Ord. 1859 - Oct. 15 Supp.)




8.   Special Events.  Any other language in this chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding, the following additional requirements are added concerning
an event for which a Special Event Permit is required under Chapter 11 of
this Municipal Code or for which a Noise Permit is otherwise required:



   A.   When a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter, the NCO or
designee shall take sound measures as close to the day and time of the event
one week prior by taking sound level readings at the property boundary of the
receiving land use of two (2) adjacent properties using a time-average
method. This sound shall be measured on two meters using the “A”
weighting scale of the sound level meter using a time setting of ‘fast’,
a sampling rate of one (1) reading per second, and for a duration of five (5)
minutes and also using the “C” weighting scale on the second meter using
the same sampling method used in the “A” weighting scale. The NCO or
designee shall determine the sound level that was exceeded 90% of the time
(L90) and the sound level that was exceeded 10% of the time (L10) on each
sound meter. The L90 shall be considered to be the ambient or baseline
reading prior to the event, while the L10 shall be considered to be the
exceptional noise level prior to the event. The applicant shall be advised of
the L90 prior to the start of the event.



   The maximum permissible level of amplified sound when a permit is
issued shall be measured on the “A” and “C” weighting scale at the
receiving land use of complainant using the time-average method previously
described. The L90 value measured on the “A” weighted scale during the
event shall not be greater than ten (10) dB above the L90 value on the
“A” weighted scale measured prior to the start of the event. The L90
value measured during the event on the “C” weighted scale shall not be
greater than eight (8) dB above the L90 value as measured on the “C”
weighted scale measured prior to the start of the event. Sound levels
measured without adjacent properties shall be measured from the edge of the
City street(s) or right-of-way abutting the event site, or in the case
Hawkeye Park is the event site, the north property line of the park.



   B.   In the case of Hawkeye Park, the L90 ambient or baseline
reading prior to an event shall be considered an official reading if the same
measurement is used within 45 days for subsequent event(s).  When a
complaint is received, a measurement may also be taken at the location on the
complainant’s property where the complaining party was disturbed.



   C.   The measurement of sound shall be made with a sound level meter
meeting the standards prescribed by the American National Standards
Institute. The instrument shall be maintained in calibration and good working
order.  Measurements recorded shall be taken so as to provide a proper
representation of the noise source.



   D.   If there is no voluntary compliance within a reasonable amount
of time, the Noise Control Officer is given the authority to issue a
municipal citation, to shut down the Special Event, to turn off the sound
equipment or to reduce the sound to the level authorized by the Noise Permit.



   E.   The City Clerk shall provide adjacent residents/property owners
of the event notice within five business days of application filing.



   F.   An event for which a Noise Permit either has not been obtained
or which is in violation of the maximum decibel levels will also be subject
to those penalties established in Chapter 4, Municipal Infractions.



Should the applicant(s) holding said events not attentively observe all
limitations and restrictions to be found in this chapter relating to noise
permits, the City authorities will have full authority to stop such event and
recommend future events be denied. The applicant and/or site owner or lessee
shall be responsible for any violations of this Code.



(Ord. 1850 – Jul. 15 Supp.)



44.07  EXCEPTIONS TO THIS CHAPTER.



This chapter shall not apply to the following:



1.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency.  This is to include the public address systems.



2.   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.



3.   Rail and air transportation and public mass transportation vehicles.



4.   The emission of sound from church bells, carillons, or chimes.



5.   The emission of sounds in conjunction with a religious celebration.



6.   The emission of sounds from sound equipment made by students,
employees or the general public while in attendance at any school-sponsored
event or any City sponsored, hosted or funded event using sound equipment
with approval from the City Manager.



(Ord. 1850 – Jul. 15 Supp.)



7.   The emission of sounds made by participants and observers of any
parade that has been approved by the Council.




8.   The sound made or caused to be made by City, school or State-owned or
hired equipment or facilities for the conduct of City, school or State
operations.





( Ord. 1691 - Apr. 11 Supp.)




9.   The emission of sound associated with the business operations of a
company located on property zoned as retail, commercial or industrial during
the hours in which the company conducts business operations to include
loading and unloading at any time.  This exception does not include
amplified sound or music. 



(Ord. 1727 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



44.08  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE NOISE CONTROL OFFICER. 



1.   In order to implement and enforce this chapter and for the general
purpose of sound and vibration abatement and control, the Noise Control
Officer (NCO) shall have, in addition to any other authority vested, the
power to:



   A.   Conduct, or cause to be conducted, research, monitoring, and
other studies related to sound and vibration.



   B.   Conduct programs of public education regarding:



      (1)   The causes, effects and general methods of abatement and
control of noise and vibration; and



      (2)   The actions prohibited by this chapter and the
procedures for reporting violations; and



      (3)   Encourage the participation of public interest groups in
related public information efforts.



   C.   Coordinate the noise and vibration control activities of all
municipal departments.



   D.   Cooperate to the extent practicable with appropriate County and
municipal agencies.



2.   In order to implement and enforce this chapter effectively, the NCO
shall within a reasonable time after the effective date of this chapter:



   A.   Develop and promulgate standards, testing methods and
procedures, subject to approval of the City Council;



   B.   Investigate and pursue possible violations of this chapter;



   C.   Delegate functions, where appropriate under this chapter, to
personnel within the NCO and to other departments of the City.



(Ord. 1660 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



44.09  SOUND LEVELS BY RECEIVING LAND USE.



No person shall operate or cause to be operated on public or private property
any source of sound in such a manner as to create a sound level which exceeds
the limits set forth for the receiving land use category in the Table in
Section 44.06(6)(A) when measured at or within the property boundary of the
receiving land use.



(Ord. 1660 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION



 

45.01  Persons Under Legal Age
 
45.03  Open Containers in Motor Vehicles


45.02  Public Consumption or Intoxication
 



 



45.01  PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.



As used in this section, “legal age” means twenty-one (21) years of age
or more.



1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase or individually or jointly have alcoholic liquor, wine or beer in
their possession or control; except in the case of liquor, wine or beer given
or dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages, wine, and beer during the regular
course of the person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or
beer permittee under State laws.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])



2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age
for the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic
beverage, wine or beer from any licensee or permittee.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])



45.02  PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.



1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:



   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the
Code of Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of
the Code of Iowa.



   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath,
or urine to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person
using devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.



   C.   “Peace Officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4
of the Code of Iowa.



   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion
of a public or private school which provides teaching for any grade from
kindergarten through grade twelve.



2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon
the public streets or highways.  A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control
license.  A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine or
beer on public school property or while attending any public or private
school-related function.  A person shall not be intoxicated or simulate
intoxication in a public place. 



3.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person
that the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own
expense.  If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for
testing a sample of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood
alcohol concentration is available, that is the only test that need be
offered the person arrested.  In a prosecution for public intoxication,
evidence of the results of a chemical test performed under this subsection is
admissible upon proof of a proper foundation.  The percentage of alcohol
present in a person’s blood, breath, or urine established by the results of
a chemical test performed within two hours after the person’s arrest on a
charge of public intoxication is presumed to be the percentage of alcohol
present at the time of arrest.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)



45.03  OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.



[See Section 62.01(47) and (48) of this Code of Ordinances.]



CHAPTER 46
MINORS



 

46.01  Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.02  Contributing to Delinquency



 



46.01  CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.



It is unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to smoke, use,
possess, purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, or
cigarettes.  Possession of cigarettes or tobacco products by a person under
eighteen years of age shall not constitute a violation of this section if
said person possesses the cigarettes or tobacco products as part of the
person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa and lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)



46.02  CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.



It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under eighteen (18)
years of age to commit any act of delinquency.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)



CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS



 

47.01  Purpose
 
47.06  Fences on Boundaries of Parks


47.02  Use of Drives Required
 
47.07  Sunrise Park


47.03  Fires
 
47.08  Parking Prohibited


47.04  Waste Material
 
47.09  Animal Waste


47.05  Closing Time; Exceptions
 



 



47.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)



47.02  USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.



No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or
roadways therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the
City.



47.03  FIRES.



No fires shall be built, except in a place provided therefor, and such fire
shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be immediately
used by some other party.



47.04  WASTE MATERIAL.



No person shall litter the ground or any building, shelter or other structure
in any City park with any form of waste material.  All waste material shall
be deposited in receptacles provided for that purpose.  Park waste
receptacles shall not be used for dumping or disposing of trash, garbage,
rubbish or any waste material introduced in that form to the park.



47.05  CLOSING TIME; EXCEPTIONS.



It is unlawful for any person, except authorized City personnel, to be in
Heritage Park between the hours of sunset and sunrise the following day, and
to be in any other public park or recreational facility within the City
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and sunrise the following day, unless
otherwise posted, or unless through written permission of the Director of
Leisure Services.  In the case of community events or celebrations,
alternative times of closure may be established by resolution of the
Council.  Written permission granted under this section is subject to the
following:



1.   Any person claiming to have written permission from the Director
shall have said written authorization in his or her possession at all times
while within the park and shall produce the same upon demand of any police
officer of the City.



2.   The written permission given to any person in responsible supervision
of any group will be sufficient to exempt all members of that group from the
provisions of this section, provided that all members of the group are
identified by the party having responsible supervision.



The Director of Leisure Services shall cause to be posted, at the entrance of
any facility which shall have closure times different from that provided for
in this section, signs notifying the public of the closing time of said
facility.



47.06  FENCES ON BOUNDARIES OF PARKS.



It is unlawful for any person to climb, sit upon, stand upon, run against, or
crawl over the fences along the boundaries of any City park, whether such
fences are owned by the City or by any private person.



47.07  SUNRISE PARK.



1.   (Repealed by Ordinance No. 1701 - Oct. 11 Supp.)



2.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or hit any baseball or
softball while standing within 50 feet of the fence which runs easterly and
westerly along the north boundary line of Sunrise Park.



47.08  PARKING PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in any City park
other than within areas designated as parking areas.  Further, parking is
specifically prohibited on the entrance side of Lakeshore Drive from
Northwest Ash Drive to the Lakeside Recreational Center’s parking area. 
The Director of Leisure Services is authorized and directed to erect signs
notifying the public of the prohibitions of this section.



47.09  ANIMAL WASTE.



No person having ownership, custody, possession, or control of any animal
shall allow or permit such animal to defecate in or on the public property
included within any City park.  In the event any animal shall defecate in or
on any public property within any City park, the person owning such animal,
or the person who at the time has custody or control of such animal, shall
cause the product of such defecation to be immediately and completely removed
from the City park and shall thereafter cause the same to be properly
disposed of outside the City park.  No person having ownership, custody,
possession or control of any animal shall leave such animal unattended in any
City park in any manner which would render such person’s ability to comply
with this section impossible or impractical.  Nothing in this section is
intended (and should not be construed) to alter, amend, or in any manner
modify any other ordinance regulating the ownership, possession, or control
of any animal.



CHAPTER 48
RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS FOR SEX OFFENDERS



(Chapter 48 Repealed by Ordinance No. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



 



CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE



 

50.01  Definition of Nuisance
 
50.05  Nuisance Abatement


50.02  Nuisances Enumerated
 
50.06  Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice


50.03  Other Conditions
 
50.07  Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure


50.04  Nuisances Prohibited
 



 



50.01  DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.



Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is
a nuisance.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)



50.02  NUISANCES ENUMERATED.



The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions which are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)



1.   Offensive Smells.  Erecting, continuing or using any building or
other place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which,
by occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public.



2.   Filth or Noisome Substance.  Causing or suffering any offal, filth,
or noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the
prejudice of others.



3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River.  Obstructing or impeding
without legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or
collection of water.



4.   Water Pollution.  Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from
its natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.



5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways.  Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.



6.   Billboards.  Billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof.  (See also Section 62.06)



7.   Storing of Flammable Junk.  Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of
fireproof construction.  (See also Chapter 51)



8.   Air Pollution.  Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.



9.   Weeds, Brush.  Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.



10.   Dutch Elm Disease.  Trees infected with Dutch elm disease.  (See
also Chapter 166)



11.   Airport Air Space.  Any object or structure hereafter erected
within 1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established
airport or landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation
including take-off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a
proper use or enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.



12.   Houses of Ill Fame.  Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the
Code of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or
houses where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are
carried on or permitted to the disturbance of others.



50.03  OTHER CONDITIONS.



The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions which are deemed to be nuisances:



1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See Chapter 51)



2.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See Chapter 110)



3.   Trees (See Chapter 166)



50.04  NUISANCES PROHIBITED.



The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter
or State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)



50.05  NUISANCE ABATEMENT.



Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section 50.06 of this
chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section 50.07.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



50.06  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.



Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



1.   Contents of Notice.  The notice to abate shall contain: 3  



   A.   Description of Nuisance.  A description of what constitutes
the nuisance.



   B.   Location of Nuisance.  The location of the nuisance.



   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate.  A statement of the act or acts
necessary to abate the nuisance.



   D.   Reasonable Time.  A reasonable time within which to complete
the abatement.



   E.   Assessment of City Costs.  A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against such
person.



2.   Method of Service.  The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



3.   Request for Hearing.  Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may
have a hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists.  A request
for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the
time stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a
nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered.  The hearing will be
before the Council at a time and place fixed by the Council.  The findings
of the Council shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it
shall be ordered abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.



4.   Abatement in Emergency.  If it is determined that an emergency
exists by reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition,
the City may perform any action which may be required under this chapter
without prior notice.  The City shall assess the costs as provided in
subsection 6 of this section after notice to the property owner under the
applicable provisions of subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in
subsection 3.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



5.   Abatement by City.  If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense
incurred.  The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk who
shall pay such expenses on behalf of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



6.   Collection of Costs.  The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has
not been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the
County Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same
manner, as general property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])




7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement.  If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds five hundred dollars ($500.00), the
City may permit the assessment to be paid in up to ten (10) annual
installments, to be paid in the same manner and with the same interest rates
provided for assessments against benefited property under State law.





(Ord. 1834 - Apr. 15 Supp.)




(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)



8.   Failure to Abate.  Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.



50.07  MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.



In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section 50.06, the
requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures applicable
to municipal infractions as set forth in Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.



 


Notes

3 
† EDITOR’S NOTE:  A suggested form of notice for the abatement of
nuisances is included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances.  Caution
is urged in the use of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly
where cost of abatement is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to
whether or not a nuisance does in fact exist.  If compliance is not secured
following notice and hearings, we recommend you review the situation with
your attorney before proceeding with abatement and assessment of costs. 
Your attorney may recommend proceedings in court under Chapter 657 of the
Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.



CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES



 

51.01  Definitions
 
51.04  Exceptions


51.02  Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited
 
51.05  Notice to Abate


51.03  Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 



 



51.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other
non-ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles,
machinery and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances;
iron, steel or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware.  Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.



2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with
the CountyTreasurer or unlicensed and which has any of the following
characteristics:



   A.   Broken Glass.  Any vehicle with a broken or cracked
windshield, window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken
glass.



   B.   Broken, Loose or Missing Part.  Any vehicle with a broken,
loose or missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.



   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects.  Any vehicle which
has become the habitat for rats, mice, or snakes, or any other vermin or
insects.



   D.   Flammable Fuel.  Any vehicle which contains gasoline or any
other flammable fuel.



   E.   Inoperable.  Any motor vehicle which lacks an engine or two or
more wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or which cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used
as an operating vehicle for a period of thirty (30) days or more.



   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition.  Any other vehicle which,
because of its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes
a threat to the public health and safety.



Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.



3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street,
excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks, and includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile,
truck, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination
thereof.



51.02  JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.



51.03  JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.



It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excluded by Section 51.04, constitutes a threat to the
health and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of
Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.  If any junk or junk vehicle is kept upon
private property in violation hereof, the owner of or person occupying the
property upon which it is located shall be prima facie liable for said
violation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])



51.04  EXCEPTIONS.



The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:



1.   Structure.  A garage or other enclosed structure; or



2.   Salvage Yard.  An auto salvage yard or junk yard or automobile
wrecking and used parts yard lawfully operated within the City.



51.05  NOTICE TO ABATE.



Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section 51.03, the City shall within five (5) days initiate
abatement procedures as outlined in Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])



CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL



 



55.01  Definitions
 
55.09  Animal Littering


55.02  Animal Neglect
 
55.10  Animals in Food Handling Establishments


55.03  Livestock Neglect
 
55.11  Number of Dogs and Cats Limited


55.04  Abandonment of an Animal
 
55.12  Owner’s Duty


55.05  Livestock
 
55.13  Confinement


55.06  At Large Prohibited
 
55.14  Contract with Society or Association


55.07  Damage or Interference
 
55.15  Impoundment


55.08  Annoyance or Disturbance
 
55.16  Pet Awards Prohibited


 
55.17  At Large Cats




 



55.01    DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.



1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium
including but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag or articulation.



2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)



3.   “Animal abuse or neglect” shall be defined by the Code of Iowa,
Section 717B.2 and 717B.3.



4.   “At large” means running or found within the City upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, public, or private grounds.  An animal, properly
licensed as required by law, shall not be deemed at large if any of the
following is true:



   A.   It is on the premises of the owner; or



   B.   It is under the control of a person competent to restrain and
control the animal, either by leash, cord, chain or other similar restraint
not more than six feet in length, or properly restrained within a motor
vehicle; or



   C.   It is properly housed in a veterinary hospital or registered
kennel; or



   D.   It is accompanied by or at heel beside and obedient to the
commands of the owner or a person capable of controlling the animal.



   E.   (Deleted by Ord. 1698 - Jul. 11 Supp.)



Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal shall be
deemed at large at any time when attacking persons or domestic animals,
destroying property or when on a public school ground, except when under
restraint as set out in paragraphs B and D of this subsection.  Further, any
female dog in heat shall be deemed at large at any time when not under
restraint as set out in paragraphs A and C of this subsection.



5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:



   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.



   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.



   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.



   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.



6.   “Cat” means and includes all members of the Felis Domestica
species, male or female, whether altered or not.  The definition of cat
specifically excludes a feral cat.  Feral cats are born in the wild or may
be abandoned or lost pets that have reverted to a wild state.



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



7.   “Dog” means and includes both male and female animals of the
Canine species, including spayed or neutered dogs.



8.   “Fair” means any of the following:



   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair
Board pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted
by a fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.



   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.



   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or
concession booths.



9.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as
defined in Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.



10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine,
equine, ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as
defined in Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa; or poultry.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)



11.   “Livestock abuse or neglect” shall be defined by the Code of
Iowa, Section 717.1A and 717.2.



12.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or
harboring an animal.



13.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained
in a small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to
a rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical
fish, goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.



14.   “Responsible party” means a person who owns or maintains or is
responsible for the care of the animal.



15.   “Society” means any incorporated society or association
organized for the express purpose of prevention of cruelty to animals.



16.   “Vaccinated” means an animal vaccinated by a licensed
veterinarian against rabies, or it means that satisfactory proof is furnished
to establish such prior vaccination of the animal within eighteen months
prior to the impounding or licensing of the animal if the vaccination was by
modified live virus vaccine of egg embryo origin, or within six months if the
vaccination was by killed tissue vaccine.



55.02  ANIMAL NEGLECT.



It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines, in any place, an
animal, excluding livestock, to fail to supply the animal during confinement
with a sufficient quantity of food or water, or to fail to provide a confined
dog or cat with adequate shelter, or to torture, deprive of necessary
sustenance, mutilate, beat, or kill such animal by any means which causes
unjustified pain, distress or suffering.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)



55.03  LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.



It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means which causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)



55.04  ABANDONMENT OF AN ANIMAL.



A person who has ownership or is the responsible party caring for an animal
shall not abandon the animal, except the person may deliver the animal to
another person who will accept ownership and custody or the person may
deliver the animal to an animal shelter or pound as defined in Section 162.2
of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)



55.05  LIVESTOCK.



It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City.



(Ord. 1700 - Jul. 11 Supp.)



55.06  AT LARGE PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any owner or responsible party of any animal to permit or
allow the animal to be at large.



55.07  DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.



It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another, thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.



55.08  ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.



It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.



55.09  ANIMAL LITTERING.



It is unlawful for the owner or responsible party to allow the animal to
deposit feces on public or private property without the consent of the
property owner.  Animal feces deposited on public or private property shall
be immediately removed and disposed of in a sanitary manner.  This section
does not apply to the owner of a service dog when the owner is deemed to be
legally blind or to have other medically and physically limiting disabilities.



55.10  ANIMALS IN FOOD HANDLING ESTABLISHMENTS.



No person shall take or permit to remain any dog, cat, or any live animal on
or upon any premises where food is sold, offered for sale, or processed for
consumption by the general public.  Fish in tanks and dogs serving persons
who are blind or who have other medically and physically limiting
disabilities are exempt from this prohibition.



55.11  NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS LIMITED.



No family or occupant of the same address shall own, harbor or keep more than
four dogs or four cats or a combination exceeding four dogs and cats per
household on any residentially zoned lot except that a litter of puppies or
kittens or a portion of the litter may be kept on the property not more than
twelve weeks from birth. 



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



55.12  OWNER’S DUTY.



It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal which has bitten
or attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official.  It is the
duty of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health
the existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)



55.13  CONFINEMENT.



If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs.  If the
owner fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall
be apprehended and impounded by such board, and after ten (10) days the board
may humanely destroy the animal.  If such animal is returned to its owner,
the owner shall pay the cost of impoundment.  This section does not apply if
a police service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting
in the performance of its duties has bitten a person.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)



55.14  CONTRACT WITH SOCIETY OR ASSOCIATION.



The City may contract with any incorporated society or association for the
following:



1.   The prevention of cruelty to animals;



2.   The collection and protection of dogs;



3.   The maintenance of a shelter or pound for unlicensed or untagged
dogs, and for lost, strayed or homeless dogs;



4.   The destruction or other disposition of seized dogs not redeemed as
provided by law or ordinance;



5.   The disposal of dead animals;



6.   Assistance in the collection of licenses upon dogs.



The City shall incorporate in the contract the manner in which the work shall
be done and in which payments are to be made by the City thereunder, and it
may also direct the disposition of all dogs seized, as provided by law, and
provide for the costs of care or disposition as provided in this chapter.



55.15  IMPOUNDMENT.



1.   Notification of Owner.  It shall be the duty of the Police
Department or any society under contract with the City to cause to be
collected and impounded any dog or cat found to be at large within the City,
as defined in Section 55.01(4) of this chapter.  When an animal has been
apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be provided to the owner
within two (2) days after impoundment, if the owner’s name and current
address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other device that
is on or part of the animal. 



2.   Impoundment Fees.  Impoundment fees are set and charged by the
society under contract with the City.  The City requires a $45.00
impoundment fee for any animal transported to the society by the City and
recovered by the owner.



(Ord. 1684 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



3.   Service Fee.  The owner or responsible party of a licensed animal
impounded by the City shall pay a $25.00 service fee to the City.  The owner
or responsible party of an unlicensed animal impounded by the City shall pay
a $45.00 service fee to the City.  The owner or responsible party of an
unlicensed animal impounded by the City shall license the animal within five
business days after the animal is recovered from impoundment.  The owner or
responsible party of an unlicensed animal recovered at the Police Department
will be billed the service fee charged for impoundment.



(Ord. 1684 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



4.   Procedure for Redemption.  Owners of animals recovered from the
Police Department will be charged a service fee.  Owners of animals
recovered from the society may be charged impoundment fees and/or service
fees.



(Ord. 1684 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



5.   Disposition of Animals.  If the owner of an animal apprehended or
impounded under the provisions of this section fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.  Feral cats shall be
disposed of pursuant to Section 55.17.                (Ord.
1684 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



55.16  PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.



(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717.E)



1.   Prohibition.  It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or
advertise that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:



   A.   A prize for participating in a game.



   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.



   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.



   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract which
includes provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the
pet.



2.   Exceptions.  This section does not apply to any of the following:



   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of
Iowa if the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet
on the premises of the pet shop.



   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of
America; the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with
outdoor recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.



55.17    AT LARGE CATS.



Any cat found to be at large without (a) collar, (b) license or (c) imbedded
ownership chip shall be determined to be a feral cat.  For purposes of this
section a cat shall have a short coat of fur to qualify as a feral cat in
addition to the aforementioned requirements of the definition.  A feral cat
shall be held for a period of twenty-four hours from the date of capture
before transportation to the Animal Rescue League.  If unclaimed within
twenty-four hours, the cat shall be identified as a feral cat for purposes of
record management with the Animal Rescue League.



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



CHAPTER 56
DOG AND CAT LICENSES REQUIRED



 

56.01  License Required
 
56.06  Recordation of License


56.02  License Fee
 
56.07  License Tags


56.03  Additional Charge for Failure to License Animals
 
56.08  License Fees


56.04  Vaccinations Required
 
56.09  Kennel Dogs


56.05  Accompanying Information
 



 



56.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.



Any person owning or harboring a dog or cat of either sex over six months of
age shall procure a license therefor from the City Clerk between January 1
and March 31 of each year, or within thirty days of the date any dog or cat
is acquired or brought into the City.



56.02  LICENSE FEE.



The annual license fee for each dog or cat subject to licensing under the
provisions of this chapter is ten dollars ($10.00) per year, and such fee
shall be paid on or before March 31 of each year or within thirty days after
acquisition of such dog or cat, except a dog or cat recovered under
Subsection 55.15(3) licensed within five business days shall pay a fee of
$20.00.  An additional $1.00 shall be assessed for all fees paid and
licenses issued by mail.



(Ord. 1684 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



56.03  ADDITIONAL CHARGE FOR FAILURE TO LICENSE ANIMALS.



The owner or responsible party of an unlicensed dog or cat shall be charged
an additional $50 for the first offense and additional $100 for each
subsequent offense.



(Ord. 1795 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



56.04  VACCINATIONS REQUIRED.



1.   Dogs.  Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for
such animal.  It is unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said
person’s possession, six months of age or over, which has not been
vaccinated against rabies. 



2.   Cats.  It is unlawful for any owner to keep a cat in said person’s
possession, six months of age of over, which has not been vaccinated against
rabies and distemper. 



3.   Certificate Required.  The Clerk shall not issue a dog or cat
license unless a certificate is filed showing that the dog or cat to be
licensed is vaccinated, including vaccination date and expiration date.



(Ord. 1684 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



4.   Owner Liability.  All vaccinations required under the provisions of
this chapter shall be conducted by a licensed veterinarian at the expense of
the owner of said animal.



56.05  ACCOMPANYING INFORMATION.



Whenever a license fee on any dog or cat is paid by any person to the Clerk,
the Clerk shall issue and deliver to such person a license which shall also
be a receipt for the license paid and which shall contain the name of the
owner or person by whom such dog or cat is kept or harbored, said person’s
place of residence, and the name and description of the animal.



56.06  RECORDATION OF LICENSE.



The Clerk shall keep a record of each license issued, and all licenses shall
be numbered consecutively.



56.07  LICENSE TAGS.



1.   The Clerk shall procure each year a sufficient number of tags or
plates, the size and shape of which shall be changed each year, each of which
shall state or indicate that the City dog or cat license fee is paid and the
year for which it is issued; and shall deliver, without charge, one of such
tags or plates stamped with the number of the license, to the person paying
the license fee, at the time of paying the same.  Such tag or plate shall be
securely fastened to a collar or harness, which shall be placed or fastened
around the neck of the dog or cat for which the license fee is paid, and
shall be at all times kept on the animal for which the license is issued.



2.   Whenever a tag or plate is lost or destroyed and an application
setting forth such fact is presented to the Clerk, a new tag or plate shall
be issued for a charge of five dollars ($5.00).



(Ord. 1698 - Jul. 11 Supp.)



3.   The license tag shall not be removed from a dog or cat prior to the
expiration of the license by any person who is not the owner thereof or the
agent of such owner.  Upon the expiration of the license, the owner shall
remove the tag from the dog or cat. It is unlawful for any person to transfer
a tag to another dog or cat.



56.08  LICENSE FEES.



All license fees collected by the City under this chapter shall be credited
to and deposited in the General Fund which is kept and used for the purpose
of enforcing this chapter.



56.09  KENNEL DOGS.



1.   No license shall be required for kennel dogs.  All kennel dogs over
six months of age shall have a rabies vaccination by a licensed veterinarian
not less than once every two years if the vaccination is by modified live
virus vaccine of egg embryo origin, or one year if by killed tissue vaccine.



2.   The owner of any kennel within the City shall be required to register
said owner’s name and business address with the Clerk, and shall comply
with this Code of Ordinances and other regulations.



3.   Commercially built kennels where permitted cannot be located closer
than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent residential lot.



4.   A kennel, for the purpose of this section, means the business of
keeping or raising four or more kennel dogs, which are kept under constant
restraint, solely for the bona fide purpose of sale.



CHAPTER 57
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS



 

57.01  Definitions
 
57.05  Keeping of Vicious Animals Prohibited


57.02  Keeping of Dangerous Animals Per Se Prohibited
 
57.06  Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition of Dangerous Animals or Vicious
Dogs


57.03  Keeping of Dangerous Dogs Regulated
 
57.07  Insurance


57.04  Keeping of Vicious Dogs Regulated
 
57.08  Penalty



 



57.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Animal” means every wild, tame, or domestic member of the animal
kingdom other than the genus and species Homo sapiens.



2.   “Animal control officer” means the individual or individuals
appointed by the City to enforce this chapter.



3.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner, unless:



   A.   The animal is on a leash, cord, chain or similar restraint not
more than six (6) feet in length and under the control of the person; or



   B.   The animal is within a motor vehicle; or



   C.   The animal is housed within a veterinary hospital, licensed
kennel, pet shop or animal shelter; or



   D.   The animal is at heel.



4.   “Dangerous animal per se” means:



   A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, mink and other Mustelids (except
ferrets);



   B.   Black widow spiders and scorpions; and



   C.   Raccoons, opossums, and skunks.



5.   “Dog” means and includes members of the Canine species, male or
female, whether neutered or not.



6.   “Dangerous dog” means any dog shall be categorized as a dangerous
dog if it fits into any of the following categories:



   A.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, bites a person or a domestic
pet or animal, whether on public or private property.



   B.   Any uncontrolled dog that chases or approaches a person without
provocation in a manner that threatens the safety of humans or domestic pets
or animals.



   C.   Any dog with a demonstrated propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack, to cause injury to, or to otherwise threaten the safety of humans
or domestic pets or animals. This category shall include a security dog that
has been trained to attack.



   D.   Any dog not in strict conformity with the rabies control
program of the City of Ankeny as established by the licensing provisions of
the Municipal Code.



7.   “Vicious animal” means any animal, including a dog, except for a
dangerous animal per se, as listed above, if it fits into any of the
following categories:



   A.   Any dog that according to the records of a health department,
police department, or humane society or according to any other records
available to the Police Department has directly inflicted any physical injury
that resulted in broken bones or lacerations requiring sutures on a human
being without provocation on public or private property.



   B.   Any dog that has killed a domestic pet or animal without
provocation while off its owner’s property.



   C.   Any dog while off its owner’s property without provocation
bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans, domestic pets or animals.



8.   Exceptions.  A dog shall not be categorized as dangerous or vicious
if it bites, attacks or menaces a person, domestic pet or animal in order to:



   A.   Defend its owner, caretaker or another person from an attack by
a person or animal.



   B.   Protect itself, its young or another animal.



   C.   Defend itself against any person or animal that has tormented,
assaulted or abused it.



   D.   Defends its owner’s or caretaker’s property against
trespassers.



57.02  KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PER SE PROHIBITED.



No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal per se as a
pet, or act as a custodian for such animal, temporarily or otherwise, or keep
such animal for any purpose or in any capacity within the City.



57.03  KEEPING OF DANGEROUS DOGS REGULATED.



The owner or caretaker of any dog determined to be dangerous pursuant to the
provisions of the City Code shall comply with the following regulations:



1.   No person owning, harboring or having care of a dangerous dog may
permit such dog to go outside of its kennel or pen unless the dog is securely
leashed on a leash no longer than 4 feet in length.



2.   No person may permit a dangerous dog to be kept on a chain, rope,
leash or similar restraining device outside its kennel or pen unless a person
competent to govern the animal is in physical control of the restraining
device and remains in position to control the dog at all times. The dog may
not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts and buildings.



3.   No dangerous dog may be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a
house or structure on the premises of the owner or caretaker that would allow
the dog to exit the building on its own volition, except through a door
leading directly to a pen or kennel.



4.   No dangerous dog may be kept in a house or structure when the windows
are open or when screen windows or doors are the only obstacle preventing the
dog from exiting the structure.



5.   The owner of a dangerous dog must successfully complete a dog
behavior modification course at owner’s expense instructed by a licensed or
certified dog behavior specialist within 60 days after receiving notification
declaring the dog dangerous.  The owner shall be required to provide a copy
of proof of successful completion of the course to the Chief of Police and
the proof shall include certification or receipt bearing the name of the
instructor and the dates of instruction.



6.   The owner of a dangerous dog must microchip the dog at the owner’s
expense within 60 days after receiving notification declaring the dog
dangerous in addition to licensing the pet in accordance with Chapter 56 of
this Code in order to assist in locating the dangerous dog should it be found
at large.



57.04  KEEPING OF VICIOUS DOGS REGULATED.



The owner or caretaker of any dog determined to be vicious pursuant to the
provisions of the City Code shall comply with the following regulations:



1.   No person owning, harboring or having care of a vicious dog may
permit such dog to go outside of its kennel or pen unless the dog is securely
leashed on a leash, no longer than 4 feet in length.



2.   No person may permit a vicious dog to be kept on a chain, rope, leash
or similar restraining device outside its kennel or pen unless a person
competent to govern the animal is in physical control of the restraining
device and remains in position to control the dog at all times.  The dog may
not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts and buildings.



3.   A vicious dog outside the dog’s kennel shall be muzzled in a humane
way by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent the dog from biting persons or
other animals.  A vicious dog shall not be required to be muzzled when
either shown in a sanctioned American Kennel Club Show or upon prior written
approval by the Chief of Police or his designee.



4.   All vicious dogs shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or kennel on the premises of the owner or caretaker,
except when leashed and muzzled.  When constructed in an open yard, the pen
or kennel must be childproof from the outside and dog proof from the
inside.  A strong metal double fence with adequate space between fences (at
least 2 feet) must be provided so that a child cannot reach into the dog
enclosure.  The pen, kennel or structure shall have secure sides and a
secure top attached to all sides.  A structure used to confine a vicious dog
shall be locked with a key or combination lock when the dog is within the
structure.  The structure shall have a secure bottom or floor attached to
the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground
no less than 2 feet.  All structures erected to house vicious dogs shall
comply with all zoning and building regulations of the City.  All structures
shall be adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.



5.   No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a
house or structure on the premises of the owner or caretaker that would allow
the dog to exit the building on its own volition, except through a door
leading directly to a pen or kennel meeting all of the requirements of this
subsection.  No vicious dog may be kept in a house or structure when the
windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacle
preventing the dog from exiting the structure.



6.   The owner or caretaker of a vicious dog shall display, in prominent
places on his or her premises near all entrances to the premises, signs in
letters of no less than 2 inches high warning that there is a vicious dog on
the property. A similar sign is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of
the dog.



7.   The owner or caretaker of a vicious dog shall immediately notify the
police department if the dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked
another animal, has attacked a human being, has died, has been sold or has
been given away. If the vicious dog has been sold or given away, the owner or
caretaker shall also provide the police department with the name, address and
telephone number of the new owner of the vicious dog. If the vicious dog is
sold or given away to a person residing outside the City, the owner or
caretaker shall present evidence to the police department showing that he or
she has notified the police department or other law enforcement agency of the
dog’s new residence.



8.   An owner or caretaker of any dog declared vicious found to be in
violation of any section of this Code related to vicious dogs shall be
ordered in writing to safely remove the dog from the City or destroy the
animal within 10 days.



9.   The owner of a vicious dog must successfully complete a dog behavior
modification course at owner’s expense instructed by a licensed or
certified dog behavior specialist within 60 days after receiving notification
declaring the dog vicious.  The owner shall be required to provide a copy of
proof of successful completion of the course to the Chief of Police and the
proof shall include certification or receipt bearing the name of the
instructor and the dates of instruction.



10.   The owner of a vicious dog must microchip the dog at the owner’s
expense within 60 days after receiving notification declaring the dog vicious
in addition to licensing the pet in accordance with Chapter 56 of this Code
in order to assist in locating the vicious dog should it be found at large.



11.   The owner of a vicious dog shall be denied a permit for the dog to
enter any park designated as a dog park in the City of Ankeny.



57.05  KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED. 



No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:



1.   Dogs used while in the line of duty by the police department, any
other law enforcement agency or unit of the United States Military Service.



2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large
may be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of Section
57.04.  Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with
a sign containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog” or words of
similar import, and the owner of such premises shall inform the Police Chief
that a guard dog is on duty at said premises.



57.06    SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS OR
VICIOUS DOGS.



1.   Upon investigation, an animal control officer may determine whether a
dog fits into any of the categories of dangerous dog or vicious dog. The
officer shall immediately inform the owner or caretaker in writing, by
personal service or by certified mail, of said determination.



2.   In the event that a dangerous or vicious animal is found at large and
unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way or the
property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to
persons or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the animal control
officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured.  The City shall
be under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous or
vicious animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner
of such animal prior to its destruction.



3.   Any animal in violation of 57.04 may be issued an Order of Removal by
the animal control officer.  The order to remove a vicious animal or dog
issued by the animal control officer may be appealed to the Police Chief. In
order to appeal such order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the
City Clerk within five (5) business days after receipt of the order contained
in the notice to remove the dangerous animal or vicious dog.  Failure to
file such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver of right to
appeal the order of the animal control officer.



4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and
shall be delivered personally or by certified mail to the City Clerk. Upon
receiving a notice of appeal, a hearing shall be convened, chaired by the
Chief of Police or designee, to receive any testimony or other evidence that
is deemed appropriate concerning the Removal Order.



5.   When an appeal has been filed, the animal control officer shall make
a reasonable effort to notify any persons who would have had direct
involvement in the situation which led to the Order of Removal, including
those persons who were injured or who are owners or keepers of any animals
which were injured by the animal.



6.   The appeal shall be heard by a committee appointed by the Chief of
Police and consisting of a minimum of three people, including a member of the
public, a dog professional, and an animal control director from another
agency or his/her designee.  The hearing of such appeal shall be scheduled
within ten (10) days of the receipt of notice of appeal. After such hearing,
the committee may affirm or reverse the order of the animal control officer.
Such determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be
filed with the City Clerk within three (3) days after the hearing or any
continued session thereof.



7.   Pending the outcome of the hearing, the dog must be securely confined
in a humane manner either on the premises of the owner or caretaker pursuant
to 57.04 or with a licensed veterinarian.



8.   If the committee affirms the action of the animal control officer,
the committee shall order in its written decision that the person owning,
sheltering, harboring, or keeping such dangerous animal or vicious dog remove
such animal from the City or destroy it. The decision and order shall
immediately be served upon the person against whom rendered in the same
manner as the notice of removal.  If the original order of the animal
control officer is not appealed and is not complied with within three (3)
days of its issuance, the animal control officer is authorized to seize and
impound such dangerous or vicious animal.  An animal so seized shall be
impounded for a period of seven (7) days. If at the end of the impoundment
period, the person against whom the decision and order of the committee was
issued has not petitioned the District Court for a review of said order, the
City shall cause the animal to be disposed of by sale or destroy such animal
in a humane manner.  Failure to comply with an order of the City issued
pursuant hereto constitutes a misdemeanor offense.



57.07    INSURANCE. 



Every person keeping or maintaining a vicious dog as provided in this
chapter, or a guard dog as provided in this chapter, shall accompany any
application or display upon request by the animal control officer a
certificate of insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business
in the State with coverage of at least one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00) combined single limit liability for bodily injury.  Such
certificate of insurance shall provide that no cancellation of the insurance
will be made unless ten (10) days’ written notice is first given to the
City Clerk. Failure to provide or display such certificate of insurance shall
be determined to be in violation of the vicious dog code as provided in this
chapter.



57.08    PENALTY. 



Violation of any provision of this chapter by an owner of an animal may be
enforced as a municipal infraction within the meaning of Section 364.22 of
the Code of Iowa, pursuant to Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances. 
Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by the enforcement
officer upon the advice and consent of the City of Attorney.



(Chapter 57 – Ord. 1738 – Oct. 12 Supp.)



CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE



 

60.01  Title
 
60.05  Peace Officer’s Authority


60.02  Definitions
 
60.06  Obedience to Peace Officers


60.03  Administration and Enforcement
 
60.07  Parades Regulated


60.04  Power to Direct Traffic
 



 



60.01  TITLE.



Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as
the “Ankeny Traffic Code.”



60.02  DEFINITIONS.



Where words and phrases used in this Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in this Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)



60.03  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.



Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the officers of the Police Department.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



60.04  POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.



A peace officer, a community service officer, and, in the absence of a peace
officer or community service officer, any officer of the fire department when
at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws.  In the event of an emergency,
traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the provisions
of the traffic laws.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])



60.05  PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.



A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle
with reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other
manifest of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the
registration certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or
permit of such vehicle.  A peace officer having probable cause to stop a
vehicle may require exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage
card issued for the vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)



60.06  OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.



No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)



60.07  PARADES REGULATED.



No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:



1.   “Parade” Defined.  “Parade” means any march or procession of
persons or vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an
organized fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles
represented or advertised to the public as a parade.



2.   Permit Required.  No parade shall be conducted without first
obtaining a written permit from the Council.  Such permit shall state the
time and date for the parade to be held and the streets or general route
therefor.  Such written permit granted to the person organizing or
sponsoring the parade shall be permission for all participants therein to
parade when such participants have been invited by the permittee to
participate therein.  A liability waiver or damage waiver must be provided
to the City.  No fee shall be required for such permit.



3.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction.  Any parade for which a permit has
been issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating
therein, shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding
the provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.



4.   Control by Police and Firefighters.  Persons participating in any
parade shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in
the performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of
the fire department.



CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES



 

61.01  Installation
 
61.04  Standards


61.02  Crosswalks
 
61.05  Compliance


61.03  Traffic Lanes
 



 



61.01  INSTALLATION.



The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an
emergency or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to
regulate, guide or warn traffic.  The Public Works Director shall maintain a
current database of all traffic control devices and traffic-control
signalized intersections within the City.




(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)





(Ord. 1840 - Apr. 15 Supp.)




61.02  CROSSWALKS.



The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic
control devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is
particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such
other places as traffic conditions require.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)



61.03  TRAFFIC LANES.



The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code.  Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be
unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such
vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing
another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)



61.04  STANDARDS.



Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)



61.05  COMPLIANCE.



No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device, as defined under Section 321.255 of the Code of Iowa, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.




(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)





(Ord. 1840 - Apr. 15 Supp.)




CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS



 

62.01  Violation of Regulations
 
62.05  Quiet Zones


62.02  Vehicles on Sidewalks
 
62.06  Obstructing View at Intersections


62.03  Operation of Motor-Driven Cycles Restricted
 
62.07  Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes


62.04  Clinging to Vehicle
 



 



62.01  VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.



Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a fire department officer during a fire, or
who fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa
statutory laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road
is in violation of this section.  These sections of the Code of Iowa are
adopted by reference and are as follows:



1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.



2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited.



3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.



4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.



5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.



6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.



7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.



8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.



9.   Section 321.91 – Penalty for abandonment.



10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.



11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.



12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses again title law.



13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.



14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed.



15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired
license.



16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits.



17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.



18.   Section 321.193 – Restricted licenses.



19.   Section 321.194 – Special minor’s licenses.



20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order.



21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card.



22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.



23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain cigarettes or tobacco
products.



24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or
when disqualified.



25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.



26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.



27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.



28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.



29.   Section 321.223 – License inspected.



30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.



31.   Section 321.232 – Radar jamming devices; penalty.



32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles.



33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.



34.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.



35.   Section 321.255 - Local traffic-control devices and 321.257 -
Official traffic control signal.    (Ord. 1840 - Apr. 15 Supp.)



36.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.



37.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs or signals;
unlawful possession.



38.   Section 321.262 – Damage to vehicle.



39.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid.



40.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.



41.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.



42.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.



43.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.



44.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.



45.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.



46.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.



47.   Section 321.284 – Open container; drivers.



48.   Section 321.284A – Open container; passengers.



49.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.



50.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.



51.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways;
exceptions.



52.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.



53.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.



54.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.



55.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.



56.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.



57.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.



58.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.



59.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles; distance
requirements.



60.   Section 321.309 – Towing; convoys; drawbars.



61.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.



62.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.



63.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.



64.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.



65.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.



66.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.



67.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.



68.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.



69.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.



70.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.



71.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.



72.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.



73.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.



74.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.



75.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.



76.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.



77.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working
on highways.



78.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.



79.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.



80.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers approaching blind persons.



81.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.



82.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal of train.



83.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting
warning.



84.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.



85.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.



86.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.



87.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.



88.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.



89.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.



90.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.



91.   Section 321.364 – Vehicles shipping food; preventing contamination
by hazardous material.



92.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.



93.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.



94.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.



95.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.



96.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.



97.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.



98.   Section 321.372 – School buses.



99.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped
vehicles.



100.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.



101.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.



102.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.



103.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.



104.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.



105.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized
bicycles.



106.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.



107.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.



108.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.



109.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.



110.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.



111.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.



112.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.



113.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.



114.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.



115.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.



116.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.



117.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.



118.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.



119.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.



120.   Section 321.406 – Cowl lamps.



121.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.



122.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.



123.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.



124.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.



125.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.



126.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.



127.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.



128.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.



129.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front.



130.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.



131.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.



132.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.



133.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.



134.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.



135.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.



136.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.



137.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.



138.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.



139.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.



140.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.



141.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.



142.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.



143.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.



144.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.



145.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.



146.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety regulations.



147.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation.



148.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.



149.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.



150.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles; permits.



151.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.



152.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.



153.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.



154.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.



155.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.



156.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight.



157.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.



158.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.



62.02  VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.



The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.



62.03  OPERATION OF MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES RESTRICTED.



No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor bicycle, motor-driven cycle,
power-driven scooter, power-driven cycle or any device powered by an internal
combustion engine or electric engine designed to transport a person within
any City park or upon any City sidewalks or upon any City-owned lands, except
upon streets or alleys where such operation is specifically permitted by
State Code.  This section does not apply to motor-driven cycles or
power-driven cycles operated by City employees in the performance of their
duties.  This section does not apply to motor-driven wheelchairs and battery
operated toys used by children 8 years of age or less when operated on City
sidewalks or in City parks.



62.04  CLINGING TO VEHICLE.



No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers are seated pursuant to State Code.  No person riding upon any
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, in-line skates, sled or toy vehicle shall
attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.



62.05  QUIET ZONES.



Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.



62.06  OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.



It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a
clear view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets.  Any
such obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty
may be abated in the manner provided by Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.



62.07  ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.



1.   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the City any engine brake, compression
brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive loud, unusual or
explosive noise from such vehicle, except in response to an imminent traffic
accident.



2.   The usage of an engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical
exhaust device designed to aid in braking or deceleration in such a manner so
as to be audible at a distance of three hundred (300) feet from the motor
vehicle shall constitute evidence of a prima facie violation of this section.



3.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section is fifty dollars
($50.00).



CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS



 

63.01  General
 
63.04  Cemeteries and Parking Lots


63.02  State Code Speed Limits
 
63.05  Special Speed Zones


63.03  Parks
 
63.06  Minimum Speed



 



63.01  GENERAL.



Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)



63.02  STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.



The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and Section 63.05 of the Ankeny Municipal Code as authorized by Section
321.290 of the Code of Iowa, and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful.



1.   Business District – twenty (20) miles per hour.



2.   Residence or School District – twenty-five (25) miles per hour.



3.   Suburban District – forty-five (45) miles per hour.



4.   Notwithstanding any other speed restriction, the speed limit for all
vehicular traffic on fully controlled-access, divided, multilane highways is
sixty-five (65) miles per hour.



5.   Unless otherwise provided in this section or by other speed
restrictions, including Special Speed Zones, the speed limit for all
vehicular traffic shall be fifty-five (55) miles per hour.



6.   The speed limit for other streets or roads is established by Section
63.05, Special Speed Zones.



(Ord. 1726 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



63.03  PARKS.



The lawful speed on any road in a public park is ten (10) miles per hour.



63.04  CEMETERIES AND PARKING LOTS.



A speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour in any public cemetery or
parking lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is
unlawful.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])



63.05  SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.



In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section 63.02 is greater
or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at any
intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street system, the
Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower speed
limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location.  The following
special speed zones have been established:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)



1.   Ankeny Boulevard.  The lawful maximum speeds on Ankeny Boulevard are
as follows:



   A.   Fifty (50) miles per hour from the south corporate limits to
1,637 feet south of Iowa 160;



   B.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from 1,637 feet south of Iowa
160 to SW Ordnance Road;



   C.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from SW Ordnance Road to 200
feet north of NE 11th Street;



   D.   Forty (40) miles per hour from 200 feet north of NE 11th Street
to 450 feet north of NW Heritage;



   E.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from 450 feet north of NW
Heritage to 250 feet north of NE 36th Street;



   F.   Fifty (50) miles per hour from 250 feet north of NW 36th Street
to 300 feet north of NE 41st Street;



   G.   Fifty-five (55) miles per hour from 300 feet north of NE 41st
Street to north corporate limits.



(Ord. 1744 - Jan. 13 Supp.)



2.   Ankeny Industrial Park.  The maximum lawful speed on the following
streets within the Ankeny Industrial Park is thirty-five (35) miles per hour:



   A.   Southeast Shurfine Drive from South Ankeny Boulevard to
Southeast Delaware;



   B.   Southeast Cortina Drive from Southeast Shurfine Drive to
Southeast Magazine Road;



   C.   Southeast Hulsizer Road from Southeast Shurfine Drive to
Southeast Oralabor Road;



   D.   Southeast Dalbey Drive from Southeast Hulsizer Road to its
western point of termination;



   E.   Southeast Lorenz Drive from Southeast Hulsizer Road to
Southeast Delaware Avenue.



3.   Delaware Avenue.  The maximum lawful speeds on Delaware Avenue are
as follows:



   A.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from the north corporate limits
to Northeast 18th Street;



   B.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from Northeast 18th Street to
Southeast Oralabor Road;



   C.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from Southeast Oralabor Road to
the south corporate limits.



4.   Irvinedale Drive.  The maximum lawful speeds on Irvinedale Drive are
as follows:



   A.   Fifty-five (55) miles per hour from the north corporate limits
to a point 2,450 feet north of Northwest 36th Street;



   B.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from a point 2,450 feet north of
Northwest 36th Street to Northwest Reinhart Drive;



   C.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from Northwest Reinhart Drive
to Southwest 3rd Street Place;



   D.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from Southwest 3rd Street Place
to Southwest Oralabor Road;



   E.   Thirty (30) miles per hour from Southwest Oralabor Road to
Southwest Oralabor Frontage Road.



   F.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone adjacent to
Westwood Elementary School as designated by the flashing warning signs;



   G.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone adjacent to
Northwest 13th Street intersection as designated by the flashing warning
signs.




(Ord. 1977 - Aug. 19 Supp.)




5.   East 1st Street.  The maximum lawful speeds on East 1st Street are
as follows:



   A.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from Ankeny Boulevard to the
west ramps of Interstate 35;



   B.   Forty (40) miles per hour from the west ramps of Interstate 35
to the east ramps of Interstate 35;



   C.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from the east ramps of
Interstate 35 to the east corporate limits.



6.   North 18th Street.  The maximum lawful speeds on North 18th Street
are as follows:



   A.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from the west corporate limits
to the east corporate limits;



   B.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone from
Northeast Trilein Drive to the east property line of the Northeast Elementary
School, when the school zone signal is flashing.



7.   North 36th Street.  The maximum lawful speeds on North 36th Street
are as follows:



   A.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from Northwest Irvinedale Drive
to 1,850 feet east of Northwest Irvinedale Drive;



   B.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from 1,850 feet east of
Northwest Irvinedale Drive to 1,250 feet west of the east corporate limits
(Polk County Northeast 29th Street);



   C.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from 1,250 feet west of the east
corporate limits (Polk County Northeast 29th Street) to the east corporate
limits (Polk County Northeast 29th Street);



   D.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone adjacent to
Northwest Abilene Road intersection as designated by the flashing warning
signs.




(Ord. 1977 - Aug. 19 Supp.)




8.   Northwest Ash Drive.  The maximum lawful speeds on Northwest Ash
Drive are as follows:



   A.   Thirty (30) miles per hour from West 1st Street to Northwest
9th Street;



   B.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from Northwest 9th Street to
the north corporate limits.



   C.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone from 240
feet south of the Northwest Georgetown Boulevard intersection to 290 feet
south of the NW Reinhart Drive intersection as designated by the flashing
warning signs.




(Ord. 1881 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




9.   Northwest 5th Street.  The maximum lawful speed on Northwest 5th
Street, from its intersection with Northwest Irvinedale Drive to its western
point of termination, is thirty-five (35) miles per hour.



10.   Southwest Oralabor Frontage Road.  The maximum lawful speed on
Southwest Oralabor Frontage Road is thirty (30) miles per hour from Polk
County Northwest 16 th Street to the eastern terminus.



(Ord. 1918 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



11.   Southeast 54th Street (Polk County Northeast 70th Avenue).  The
maximum lawful speed on Southeast 54th Street from Southeast Delaware Avenue
to a point one-half mile west of the intersection is thirty-five (35) miles
per hour.



12.   Southeast Convenience Boulevard.  The maximum lawful speed on
Southeast Convenience Boulevard, from Southeast Oralabor Road to its southern
point of termination, is thirty-five (35) miles per hour.



13.   Southeast Four Mile Drive.  The maximum lawful speeds on Southeast
Four Mile Drive are as follows:



   A.   Fifty (50) miles per hour from East 1st Street to Southeast
Magazine Road.



   B.   Forty (40) miles per hour from Southeast Magazine Road to
Southeast Oralabor Road.



   C.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from Southeast Oralabor Road to
a point 4,000 feet to the south.



   D.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from a point 4,000 feet to the
south of Southeast Oralabor Road to a point 6,400 feet to the south of
Southeast Oralabor Road.



   E.   Fifty-five (55) miles per hour from a point 6,400 feet to the
south of Southeast Oralabor Road to the south corporate limits.




(Ord. 1900 - Feb. 17 Supp.)




14.   Southeast Magazine Road.  The maximum lawful speeds on Southeast
Magazine Road are as follows:



   A.   Thirty (30) miles per hour from South Ankeny Boulevard (US
Highway 69) to Southeast Delaware Avenue.



   B.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone adjacent to
Southeast Trilein Drive intersection as designated by the flashing warning
signs.




(Ord. 1881 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




15.   Southeast Oralabor Road.  The maximum lawful speeds on Southeast
Oralabor Road (IA Highway 160) are as follows:



   A.   Forty (40) miles per hour from South Ankeny Boulevard (U.S.
Highway 69) to 150 feet west of SE Rio Drive.



   B.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from 150 feet west of SE Rio
Drive to the east right-of-way limits of Interstate 35.



   C.   Forty (40) miles per hour from the east right-of-way limits of
Interstate 35 to 1,250 feet east of SE Convenience Boulevard/SE Creekview
Drive.



   D.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from 1,250 feet east of SE
Convenience Boulevard/SE Creekview Drive to the east corporate limits. 



(Ord. 1898 - Feb. 17 Supp.)



16.   (Deleted by Ordinance No. 1726 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



17.   Southwest 3rd Street.  The maximum lawful speed on Southwest 3rd
Street, from Southwest State Street to its intersection with Southwest 3rd
Place, is thirty-five (35) miles per hour.



18.   Southwest Ankeny Road.  The maximum lawful speed on Southwest
Ankeny Road is thirty-five (35) miles per hour.



19.   Southwest Oralabor Road.  The maximum lawful speed on SW Oralabor
Road (IA Highway 415/160) from the west corporate limits to South Ankeny
Boulevard (U.S. Highway 69) is fifty (50) miles per hour.




(Ord. 1783 - Jan. 14 Supp.)




20.   Southwest Ordnance Road.  The maximum lawful speeds on Southwest
Ordnance Road are as follows:



   A.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from Southwest State Street to
South Ankeny Boulevard (US Highway 69).



   B.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone adjacent to
Southwest Cherry Street intersection as designated by the flashing warning
signs.




(Ord. 1881 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




21.   Southwest Polk City Drive.  The maximum lawful speed on Southwest
Polk City Drive is as follows:



   A.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from the Southwest Oralabor
Frontage Road to 400' east of Southwest Polk City Court;




   B.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from 400' east of Southwest Polk
City Court to Southwest State Street.





(Ord. 1647 - Oct. 09 Supp.)




   C.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone adjacent to
Southwest Applewood Street intersection as designated by the flashing warning
signs. 




(Ord. 1881 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




22.   Southwest State Street.  The maximum lawful speeds on Southwest
State Street are as follows:



   A.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from West 1st Street to
Southwest Ordnance Road;



   B.   Forty-five (45) miles per hour from Southwest Ordnance Road to
Southwest Oralabor Road;



   C.   Fifty-five (55) miles per hour from Southwest Oralabor Road to
the south corporate limits (Highway 415).



23.   West 1st Street.  The maximum lawful speeds on West 1st Street are
as follows:



   A.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from Ankeny Boulevard west to
its western terminus;



   B.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in the school zone from
Northwest Kline Street to the west property line of the Northwest Elementary
School, when the school zone signal is flashing.



24.   Weigel Drive.  The maximum lawful speed on SW Weigel Drive and NW
Weigel Drive is thirty-five (35) miles per hour from the south corporate
limits to the north corporate limits.



25.   Corporate Woods Drive.  The maximum lawful speed on SE Corporate
Woods Drive is thirty-five (35) miles per hour from SE Delaware Avenue east
to the corporate limits.



(Ord. 1726 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



26.   Northwest State Street.  The maximum lawful speeds on NW State
Street are as follows:



   A.   Thirty-five (35) miles per hour from NW Prairie Ridge Drive to
the north corporate limits. 



   B.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour from NW Prairie Ridge Drive to
West First Street.



(Ord. 1750 - Apr. 13 Supp.)



27.   NE Frisk Drive.  The maximum lawful speeds on NE Frisk Drive are as
follows:



   A.   Forty (40) miles per hour from E. 1st Street (Polk County NE
94th Avenue) to NE Chambers Parkway (Polk County NE 97th Place).



   B.   Thirty (30) miles per hour from NE Chambers Parkway (Polk
County NE 97th Place) to NE 18th Street (Polk County NE 102nd Avenue).



(Ord. 1777 - Oct. 13 Supp.)



28.   Southwest Vintage Parkway.  The maximum lawful speeds on Southwest
Vintage Parkway are as follows:



   A.   Thirty (30) miles per hour from Southwest Irvinedale Drive to
Southwest State Street.



29.   Southwest Magazine Road.  The maximum lawful speeds on Southwest
Magazine Road are as follows:



   A.   Thirty (30) miles per hour from Southwest Vintage Parkway to
Southwest State Street.



   B.   Thirty (30) miles per hour from Southwest State Street to South
Ankeny Boulevard (U.S. Highway 69).



(Ord. 1906 - May 17 Supp.)



63.06  MINIMUM SPEED.



A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)



CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS



 

64.01  Turning at Intersections
 
64.03  Left Turn for Parking


64.02  U-turns
 



 



64.01  TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.



The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)



1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.



2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the
intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.



3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection.  A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.



The law enforcement officer may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed
within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as
traffic conditions require, that a different course from that specified above
be traveled by vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons
or signs are so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or
signs.



64.02  U-TURNS.



It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the business district, at the
following designated intersections and at intersections where there are
automatic traffic signals.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])



1.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Logan Street;



2.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and School Street;



3.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Pleasant Street;



4.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Walnut Street;



5.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Cherry Street;



6.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Maple Street;



7.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Scott Street;



8.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Elm Street;



9.   At the intersection of 3rd Street and Des Moines Street.



64.03  LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.



No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.



CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED



 

65.01  Authority and Compliance
 
65.04 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed


65.02 School Districts
 
65.05  Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks


65.03  Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
 



 



65.01  AUTHORITY AND COMPLIANCE.



The City has designated, as allowed in Section 321.236(6) of the Code of
Iowa, certain through streets and stop intersections requiring that all
vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way before entering or crossing such
intersections or requiring all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to
such intersections.  Every driver of a vehicle shall stop as directed at
locations where an official stop sign is posted.



65.02  SCHOOL DISTRICTS.



Movable school stop signs shall be placed at pedestrian crosswalks within
school districts on school days at the beginning and end of the school day
and if necessary during lunch hour, whereupon the driver of a vehicle shall
bring such vehicle to a full stop at a point ten feet from the approach side
of the crosswalk in proximity thereto and, thereafter, proceed slowly and in
a careful and prudent manner until the driver has passed such school
districts.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1[70])



65.03  STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.



The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the
sidewalk area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when
able to do so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is
entering.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)



65.04    STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.



Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.



65.05  YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.



Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of
a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be,
to yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)




(Ch. 65 - Ord. 1840 - Apr. 15 Supp.)




CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS



 

66.01  Temporary Embargo
 
66.04  Load Limits on Bridges


66.02  Permits for Excess Size and Weight
 
66.05  Truck Route


66.03  Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 



 



66.01  TEMPORARY EMBARGO.



If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets
so designated by such signs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)



66.02  PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.



A permit for excess size and weight authorizing the applicant to operate or
move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load
exceeding the maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets
or bridges named in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City
and for which the City is responsible for maintenance is required as follows:



   1.   The Public Works Director or his authorized agent may at their
discretion, and upon application and with good cause, issue permits for the
movement on city streets of indivisible oversize and/or overweight vehicles
and loads as defined by Iowa Code Section 321. The maximum vehicle dimensions
and weight are as specified in Sections 321.452 through 321.466 of the Iowa
Code or succeeding legislation.



      A.   Permits for excess size and weight may be issued by the
City as single trip permits or annual permits. All permits shall be in
writing, shall be carried in the cab of the vehicle for which the permit has
been issued, and shall be available for inspection at all times.



      B.   Fees: The fee for the issuance of an annual permit for
excess size and weight shall be $250.00. A fee shall not be required for
single-trip permits.



      C.   The permit holder must comply with all provisions of
Chapter 321E of the Iowa Code, including requirements for escort vehicles,
lights, signs, and flags.



      D.   When in the judgment of the Public Works Director or law
enforcement official the movement of a permitted vehicle of excess size
and/or weight will be hazardous to public safety or will cause undue damage
to a specific street pavement, curb, sidewalk or other property, the permit
shall be revoked either permanently or temporarily. The reasons for the
revocation and tenure of the revocation shall be so noted in writing to the
permit holder.



      E.   The permit holder must comply with the restrictions and
requirements in  regard to temporary embargos, load limits on certain
streets, load limits on bridges, truck routes and any other restrictions as
designated in this chapter.



(Ord. 1801 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



66.03  LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.



When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs
at any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)



   1.   Exceptions.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this section,
vehicles in excess of 5 tons are prohibited on the following roadway:



      A.   On NE 18th Street from County NE 29th Street to County NE
38th Street.



(Ord. 1775 - Oct. 13 Supp.)



66.04  LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.



Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving
the bridge, the Public Works Director and/or the Police Chief may cause to be
posted and maintained signs on said bridge and at suitable distances ahead of
the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load limits, and no
person shall drive, pull, or otherwise propel any vehicle weighing, loaded or
unloaded, upon said bridge in excess of such posted limit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)



1.   There is fixed for users of the following bridges the maximum load
limit, including the weight of the vehicle, together with trailer or other
attachments thereto, designated for each bridge:



   A.   NE 54th Street, over the east tributary to Fourmile Creek,
between NE Hillcrest Drive and NE Briarwood Drive, a maximum load limit of 15
tons for straight truck, 25 tons for truck plus semi-trailer, and 27 tons for
truck plus trailer.  Maximum load limit of 27 tons for all vehicles.




(Ord. 1955 - Nov. 18 Supp.)




66.05  TRUCK ROUTES.



1.   Designated.  All trucks and other commercial vehicles with a gross
weight of 10,000 pounds or more shall be operated only upon the following
streets, which streets are hereby designated as truck routes:



   A.   West 1st Street and East 1st Street from its termination point
on the west to the east corporate limits;



   B.   Southeast and Northeast Delaware Avenue from the south
corporate limits to the north corporate limits;



   C.   Southwest 3rd Street from Southwest Cherry Street to South
Ankeny Boulevard;



   D.   Southwest Cherry Street from West 1st Street to Southwest
Magazine Road;



   E.   South Ankeny Boulevard and North Ankeny Boulevard from the
south corporate limits to the north corporate limits;



   F.   Southwest 3rd Street Place from Southwest Irvinedale Drive east
to Southwest State Street;



   G.   Southwest Ordnance Road from Southwest State Street to South
Ankeny Boulevard;



   H.   Southwest Linden Street from Southwest 3rd Street to West 1st
Street;



   I.   Southeast and Southwest Magazine Road from its point of
commencement to its point of termination;



   J.   Southeast Oralabor Road and Southeast Oralabor Road from the
west corporate limits to the east corporate limits;



   K.   Southwest Irvinedale Drive and Northwest Irvinedale Drive from
Southwest Oralabor Road to the north corporate limits;



   L.   Southwest State Street and Northwest State Street from the
south corporate limits to its north point of termination;



   M.   Southeast Cortina Drive from Southeast Shurfine Drive to
Southeast Magazine Road;



   N.   Southeast Shurfine Drive from its point of commencement to its
point of termination;



   O.   Southeast Hulsizer Avenue from its point of commencement to its
point of termination;



   P.   Southeast Lorenz Drive from its point of commencement to its
point of termination;



   Q.   Southeast 54th Street from the west corporate limits to
Southeast Delaware Avenue;



   R.   Northwest 18th Street and Northeast 18th Street from the west
corporate limits to Northeast Delaware Avenue;



   S.   Southeast Creekview Drive from Southeast Oralabor Road north to
its points of termination;



   T.   Southeast Creekview Drive from East 1st Street south to its
point of termination;



   U.   Southeast Tones Drive from Southeast Creekview Drive to its
point of termination;



   V.   Southeast Convenience Boulevard from Southeast Oralabor Road to
its point of termination;



   W.   Southeast Corporate Woods Drive / Southeast 72nd Street from
the west corporate limits to the east corporate limits;



   X.   Southeast Four Mile Drive from the south corporate limits to
Southeast Oralabor Road;



   Y.   Northeast and Northwest 36th Street from the east corporate
limits to the west corporate limits;



   Z.   Northeast 54th Street from Ankeny Boulevard to Delaware Avenue;



   AA.   Northwest Ash Street from West 1st Street to Northwest 36th
Street.



(Ord. 1731 – Oct. 12 Supp.)



2.   Definition.  “Truck” means any motor vehicle designed primarily
for carrying livestock, merchandise, freight of any kind, or nine persons as
passengers, excepting school buses.



3.   Entering and Reentering; Conduct of Business.  Such vehicles named
in subsection 1 may be operated upon any street where necessary in the
conduct of business to and from a destination point, but then only by leaving
and reentering the truck route at the intersection nearest to such point.



4.   Posting of Signs.  The City shall cause truck route prohibitions and
limitations to be designated by appropriate signs posted upon the truck route.



CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS



 

67.01  Pedestrians in Streets
 
67.03  Pedestrian Crossing


67.02  Hitchhiking
 
67.04  Use of Sidewalks



 



67.01  PEDESTRIANS IN STREETS.



At all times when pedestrians are walking, jogging or otherwise moving on or
along a street, such pedestrians shall proceed on the left side of the street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)



67.02  HITCHHIKING.



No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any private vehicle.  Nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to prevent any pedestrian from standing on that portion of
the highway or roadway, not ordinarily used for vehicular traffic, for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)



67.03  PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.



Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)



67.04  USE OF SIDEWALKS.



Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk, jog
or otherwise move along and upon an adjacent street.



CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC



68.01  ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.



Upon the following streets and alleys vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])



– NONE –



CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS



 



69.01  Authority and Compliance
 
69.10  No Parking on North and East Sides of Streets


69.02  Park Adjacent to Curb
 
69.11  No Parking on Both Sides


69.03  Park Adjacent to Curb – One-way Street
 
69.12  Truck, Trailer, and Boat Parking Limited


69.04  Angle Parking
 
69.13  Parking Limited to Two Hours


69.05  Angle Parking – Manner
 
69.14  Snow Ordinance


69.06  Parking for Certain Purposes Illegal
 
69.15  Snow Routes


69.07  Parking Prohibited
 
69.16  No Passenger Loading or Unloading


69.08  Persons With Disabilities Parking
 
69.17  Fire Lanes


69.09  School Crossing Crosswalk
 
69.18  Controlled Access Facilities


 
69.19  Temporary Parking




 



69.01  AUTHORITY AND COMPLIANCE.



The City has designated, as allowed in Section 321.236(1) of the Code of
Iowa, certain areas where the standing or parking of vehicles is regulated by
traffic control devices.  No person shall stop, park, or stand a vehicle in
violation of any such posted parking regulations unless in compliance with
the directions of a peace officer.



69.02  PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.



No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within eighteen (18) inches of
the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of
angle parking and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



69.03  PARK ADJACENT TO CURB – ONE-WAY STREET.



No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the
direction of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the
vehicle within eighteen (18) inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except
as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



69.04  ANGLE PARKING.



Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



1.   Southwest 3rd Street.  On the north side of Southwest 3rd Street
from a point 100 feet west of Southwest Maple Street to a point 100 feet east
of Southwest Walnut Street, and on the south side of Southwest 3rd Street
from a point 100 feet west of Southwest Maple to Southwest Maple Street, and
from a point 25 feet east of Southwest Cherry Street to Southwest Walnut
Street;



2.   Southwest Cherry Street.  On both sides of Southwest Cherry Street
from Southwest 3rd Street to Southwest 2nd Street, and on the east side of
Southwest Cherry Street from a point 28 feet south of Southwest 3rd Street to
a point 103 feet south of Southwest 3rd Street;



3.   Southwest Walnut Street.  On the west side of Southwest Walnut
Street from Southwest 3rd Street to Southwest 2nd Street;



4.   Southwest Maple Street.  On the west side of Southwest Maple Street
from a point 30 feet south of Southwest 3rd Street to a point 332 feet south
on Southwest Maple Street.



5.   Southwest 4th Street.  On the north side of Southwest 4th Street
from a point 15 feet west of Southwest Maple Street to a point 134 feet west
on Southwest 4th Street;



6.   Southwest Maple Street.  On the east side of Southwest Maple Street
from a point 217 feet south of Southwest 4th Street to a point 100 feet south
on Southwest Maple Street;



7.   Southwest 5th Street.  On the north side of Southwest 5th Street
from a point 20 feet east of Southwest Maple Street to a point 110 feet east
on Southwest 5th Street;



8.   Southwest 2nd Street.  On the south side of Southwest 2nd Street
from a point 20 feet west of Southwest Walnut Street to a point 134 feet west
of Southwest Walnut Street;



9.   Southwest School Street.  On the west side of Southwest School
Street from Southwest School Street and Southlawn Drive to a point 328 feet
south of Southwest School Street and Southwest Southlawn Drive.



10.   Maple Street.  On the west side of Maple Street from a point 50
feet south of the centerline of West 1st Street to a point 50 feet north of
the centerline of Southwest 2nd Street.



69.05  ANGLE PARKING – MANNER.



Upon those streets or portions of streets which have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings.  No part of any vehicle or the load
thereon, when parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



69.06  PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.



No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than forty-eight
(48) hours, unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or
for any of the following principal purposes:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])



1.   Sale.  Displaying such vehicle for sale;



2.   Repairing.  For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of
such vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency;



3.   Advertising.  Displaying advertising;



4.   Merchandise Sales.  Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in
a duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this
Code of Ordinances.



69.07  PARKING PROHIBITED.



No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:



1.   Crosswalk.  On a crosswalk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])



2.   Center Parkway.  On the center parkway or dividing area of any
divided street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



3.   Mailboxes.  Within twenty (20) feet on either side of a mailbox
which is so placed and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from
vehicles on the roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



4.   Sidewalks.  On or across a sidewalk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])



5.   Driveway.  Within 5 feet of the closest side of a public or private
driveway. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])



6.   Intersection.  Within an intersection or within 20 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])



7.   Fire Hydrant.  Within five (5) feet of a fire hydrant.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])



8.   Stop Sign or Signal.  Within ten (10) feet upon the approach to any
flashing beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the
side of a roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])



9.   Safety Zone.  Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within
ten (10) feet of points in the curb immediately opposite ends of a safety
zone.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[7])



10.   Railroad Crossing.  Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a
railroad crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not
exhibiting a red light.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])



11.   Fire Station.  Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to
any fire station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any
fire station within seventy-five (75) feet of said entrance when properly
sign posted.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])



12.   Excavations.  Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])



13.   Double Parking.  On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or
parked at the edge or curb of a street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])



14.   Hazardous Locations.  When, because of restricted visibility or
when standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic,
or when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])



15.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings.  A space of fifty (50)
feet is hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre,
auditorium, hotel having more than twenty-five (25) sleeping rooms, hospital,
nursing home, taxicab stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large
assemblages of people are being held, within which space, when clearly marked
as such, no motor vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in
taking on or discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length
of time as is necessary for such purpose.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)



16.   Alleys.  In any alley except for such reasonable time as may be
necessary to load or unload passengers, freight or other merchandise.



17.   Ramps.  In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public
or private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])



18.   Parkway Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line.  That area of the
public way not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the
curb line, where curbing has been installed. 



19.   In More Than One Space.  In any designated parking space so that
any part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond
the markings designating such space.



20.   Semicircular Drives.  Along the interior curve curb line of any
street which has its point of commencement and its point of termination at
different intersecting points with the same street, in a semicircular or
horseshoe fashion.  Cul-de-sacs are not semicircular drives within the
meaning of this subsection.  This subsection shall control the parking of
vehicles on streets within subdivision plats which have been given approval
by the Council on or after October 5, 1987.



21.   Temporary Locations.  Parking by the general public is prohibited
at any place where Temporary No Parking signs prohibit stopping, parking or
standing a vehicle for the duration of an activity, except by an authorized
Temporary Parking Permit holder.  Said Temporary Parking Permit may be
issued by the Police Chief or the Public Works Director.  The Temporary
Parking Permit holder shall have exclusive right to utilize the designated
parking spaces for the duration of the authorized activity except as directed
by a peace officer.



(Ord. 1740 - Jan. 13 Supp.)



69.08  PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.



The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:



1.   Establishment.  Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of
Iowa and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18.  No unauthorized person shall
establish any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first
obtaining Council approval.



2.   Improper Use.  The following uses of a persons with disabilities
parking space, located on either public or private property, constitute
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a
violation of this Code of Ordinances:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])



   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit;



   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa;



   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under
Section 321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.



3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones.  No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:



   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A(1) of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.



   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone
which is properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A(1) of the
Code of Iowa.



69.09  SCHOOL CROSSING CROSSWALK.



No parking is allowed within twenty feet on the departure side and fifty feet
of the approach side of the following designated school crossing crosswalks:



1.   East Elementary School.



   A.   Southeast 3rd Street and Trilein crosswalks, crossing north,
south and east intersection approaches.



   B.   Southeast 2nd Street and Trilein crosswalks, crossing the west
and south intersection approaches.



2.   Southeast Elementary School.  Southeast 10th Street and Trilein
crosswalks, crossing east, west and south intersection approaches.



3.   Parkview School.  West 1st and School Street crosswalk, crossing the
north, south and west intersection approaches.



4.   Terrace Elementary School.  Northwest 5th and Northwest School
Street crosswalks, crossing the north and west intersection approaches.



5.   Northwest Elementary School.



   A.   Northwest 1st and Kline Street crosswalks, crossing the north
and south intersection approaches.



   B.   West 1st and Flynn Street crosswalks, crossing the north and
south intersection approaches.



69.10  NO PARKING ON NORTH AND EAST SIDES OF STREETS. 



No parking is allowed on the north side of all east-west streets and on the
east side of all north-south streets within the City, except as hereinafter
provided:



1.   Exceptions.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, parking
is prohibited in the following locations, but permitted along the curb
opposite such locations, as follows:



   A.   On the south side of Northwest Pine Street from Southwest 10th
to Northwest Abilene;



   B.   On the south side of Northwest 10th Street from Northwest
Beechwood to Northwest State Street;



   C.   On the south side of Northwest Hickory Lane from Northwest
Abilene to Northwest Linden;



   D.   On the south side of Southeast Eastlawn from Southeast Grant to
Southeast Sherman Drive;



   E.   On the south and west side of Southwest Southlawn Drive from
Southwest Southlawn circle to Southwest Southlawn Drive;



   F.   On the south side of Southwest 3rd Street from Southwest
Pleasant Street, west to the alley;



   G.   On the east side of Southwest Cherry from a point 66 feet south
of Southwest 2nd Street to a point 132 feet north of Southwest 3rd Street;



   H.   On the north side of Southeast 54th Street from a point
commencing at the end of the roadway tapers at Southeast Delaware Avenue west
of the corporate limit;



   I.   On the south side of Southwest 2nd Street from the alley west
of Southwest Pleasant Street to Southwest Pleasant Street;



   J.   On the south side of Southeast Chaparal Court from Southeast
Waywin Drive west to termination;



   K.   On the west side of Southwest Ridgeview Lane from Southwest
29th Street to Southwest Coves Drive;



   L.   On the south side of Northwest 26th Street from Northwest
Northpark Drive to Northwest State Street;



   M.   On the west side of Northwest Boulder Drive from Northwest
Boulder Point Place to Northwest 13th Street.



   N.   On the south side of Northeast 16th Street from Northeast
Cortina Drive to Northeast Trilein Drive;




(Ord. 1628 - Jan. 09 Supp.)




   O.   On the south side of Southwest 46th Street from Southwest Scott
Street to Southwest Walnut Street;




(Ord. 1628 - Jan. 09 Supp.)




   P.   On the south side of Southwest 53rd Street from Southwest
Goodwin Street to Southwest Somersby Drive;




(Ord. 1628 - Jan. 09 Supp.)




   Q.   On the west side of Southwest Goodwin Street from Southwest
50th Street to Southwest 53rd Street;




(Ord. 1628 - Jan. 09 Supp.)




   R.   On the south side of Northwest 32nd Street from Northwest North
Park Drive to Northwest Ash Drive;



   S.   On the west side of Northwest North Park Drive from Northwest
32nd Street to Northwest 33rd Street;



   T.   On the west side of Southwest Twin Gates Drive from Southwest
Ankeny Road to Southwest Olde Ivy Circle.



(Paragraphs R, S, T Added by Ord. 1685 - Jan. 11 Supp.)



   U.   On the south side of Northwest 4 th Street from Northwest
Greenwood Street to Northwest Westwood Street.



(Ord. 1724 –Apr. 12 Supp.)



   V.   On the east side of Northwest College Avenue from Northwest
Abilene Road to Northwest 18th Street.



(Ord. 1761 - Jul. 13 Supp.)



2.   Exceptions.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, parking
is authorized or prohibited along certain streets as hereinafter set forth:



   A.   Southwest School Street.  Parking is permitted on the east
side of Southwest School Street between Southwest 2nd and Southwest 3rd
Street.



   B.   Southwest School Street.  Parking is permitted on the east
side of Southwest School Street between Southwest 3rd Street and Southwest
Southlawn Drive. 



   C.   Southwest 3rd Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Southwest 3rd Street between Southwest Scott and Southwest Flynn Drive
during the hours between 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.



   D.   Northwest 4th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northwest 4th Street from a point 180 feet west of North Abilene Road to a
point 130 feet east of North College Avenue.



   E.   Southwest Des Moines Street.  Parking is prohibited on the
west side of Southwest Des Moines Street from a point 90 feet north and south
of its intersection with Southwest Kenworthy Drive.



   F.   Northeast 5th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northeast 5th Street from North Ankeny Boulevard to Northeast Grant Street.



   G.   Northwest 5th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northwest 5th Street from North Ankeny Boulevard to a point 125 feet west
of Northwest School Street.



(Ord. 1940 - May 18 Supp.)



   H.   Northeast 9th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northeast 9th Street from North Ankeny Boulevard to Northeast Grant Street.



   I.   Northwest 9th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northwest 9th Street from North Ankeny Boulevard to Northwest Logan Street.



   J.   Northeast 11th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south
side of Northeast 11th Street from North Ankeny Boulevard to Northeast Grant
Street.



   K.   Northwest Prairie Ridge Drive.  Parking is prohibited on
Northwest Prairie Ridge Drive.



   L.   Northeast Trilein Drive.  Parking is prohibited on the west
side of Northeast Trilein Drive from Northeast 18th Street to Northeast 16th
Street, and from 20 feet north of the north right-of-way line of Northeast
3rd Street to East 1st Street.



   M.   Southwest Cherry Street.  Parking is prohibited on the west
side of Southwest Cherry Street from West 1st Street to 150 feet south of the
south right-of-way line of West 1st Street.



   N.   Northwest Georgetown Boulevard.  Parking is prohibited on the
south side of Northwest Georgetown Boulevard from 90 feet west of the
centerline of Northwest Logan Street to 115 feet east of the centerline of
Northwest Logan Street.



   O.   Southwest Country Club Drive.  Parking is prohibited on the
north and west side of Southwest Country Club Drive from 140 feet north and
east of the centerline of Southwest Skyview Circle to Southwest Skyview
Circle.



   P.   Southwest Edgewood Lane.  Parking is prohibited on both sides
of Southwest Edgewood Lane from Southwest Oralabor Road to a point 270 feet
north of the centerline of Southwest Oralabor Road.



   Q.   Southwest Somersby Boulevard.  Parking is prohibited on both
sides of Southwest Somersby Boulevard from Southwest 39th Street to Southwest
46th Street.



   R.   Northwest 9th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northwest 9th Street from a point located approximately 206 feet west of
the centerline of Northwest School Street, to a point located approximately
494 feet west of the centerline of Northwest School Street, as measured along
the south curb line of Northwest 9th Street.



   S.   Northwest Scott Street.  Parking is prohibited on the west
side of Northwest Scott Street from a point located approximately 260 feet
north of the centerline of West 1st Street, to a point located approximately
350 feet north of the centerline of West 1st Street, as measured along the
west curb line of Northwest Scott.



   T.   Southwest Elm Street.  Parking is prohibited on Sunday between
6:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on the west side of Southwest Elm Street from a point
670 feet north of the centerline of Southwest Ordnance Road to a point 1,065
feet north of the centerline of Southwest Ordnance Road.




   U.   Southeast 10th Street.  Parking is prohibited Monday through
Friday between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. and Monday through Friday between 2:00
p.m. and 3:00 p.m. on the south side of Southeast 10th Street from Southeast
Trilein Drive to a point 550' east of SE Trilein Drive.





(Ord. 1627A - Jan. 09 Supp.)





   V.   Northwest 9th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northwest 9th Street from Northwest State Street to a point 190 feet west
of the centerline of Northwest State Street.





(Ord. 1696 - Apr. 11 Supp.)




   W.   Southwest Goodwin Street.  Parking is prohibited on the west
side of Southwest Goodwin Street from Southwest Ankeny Road to a point 235
feet south of the centerline of Southwest Ankeny Road.



(Ord. 1799 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



   X.   Northwest 5th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south side
of Northwest 5th Street from a point 5 feet east of the driveway approach for
5103 Northwest 5th Street to a point 5 feet west of the driveway approach for
5007 Northwest 5th Street.



   Y.   Northwest 8th Street and Northwest Jackson Drive.  Parking is
prohibited on the south side of Northwest 8th Street and the west side of
Northwest Jackson Drive from a point 25 feet west of the driveway approach
for 4605 Northwest 8th Street to a point 25 feet south of the driveway
approach for 612 Northwest Jackson Drive.




(Ord. 1825 - Oct. 14 Supp.)




   Z.   Northwest Abilene Road.  Parking is prohibited on the west
side of Northwest Abilene Road from Northwest 18th Street to a point 150 feet
north of the centerline of Northwest 18th Street.




(Ord. 1864 - Oct. 15 Supp.)




   AA.   Northeast Bellagio Circle.  Parking is prohibited on the
north side of Northeast Bellagio Circle from Northeast Delaware Avenue to a
point 200 feet east of the centerline of Northeast Delaware Avenue.




(Ord. 1866 - Jan. 16 Supp.)




   AB.  Northwest Reinhart Drive.  Parking is prohibited on the south
side of Northwest Reinhart Drive from Northwest State Street to a point 165
feet west of the centerline of Northwest State Street;



   AC.  Northwest Reinhart Drive.  Parking is prohibited on the south
side of Northwest Reinhart Drive from Northwest Ash Drive to a point 130 feet
west of the centerline of Northwest Ash Drive;



   AD.  Northwest Reinhart Drive.  Parking is prohibited on the south
side of Northwest Reinhart Drive from Northwest Ash Drive to a point 130 feet
east of the centerline of Northwest Ash Drive;



   AE.  Northwest Reinhart Drive.  Parking is prohibited on the south
side of Northwest Reinhart Drive from North Ankeny Boulevard to a point 185
feet west of North Ankeny Boulevard. 




(Subsections AB-AE added by Ord. 1895 - Oct. 16 Supp.)




   AF.   Northwest Park Meadows Drive.  Parking is prohibited on the
north side of Northwest Park Meadows Drive from Northwest Ash Drive to a
point 200 feet west of the centerline of Northwest Ash Drive;



   AG.   Northwest Georgetown Boulevard.  Parking is prohibited on the
south side of Northwest Georgetown Boulevard from Northwest Ash Drive to a
point 200 feet east of the centerline of Northwest Ash Drive;



   AH.   Northwest Beechwood Street.  Parking is prohibited on the
west side of Northwest Beechwood Street from Northwest 18th Street to a point
215 feet north of the centerline of Northwest 18th Street.



(Subsections AF-AH - Ord. 1928 - Nov. 17 Supp.)



   AI.   Northeast 47th Street.  Parking is prohibited on the south
side of Northeast 47th Street from North Ankeny Boulevard to a point 350 feet
east of the centerline of North Ankeny Boulevard.



(Ord. 1945 - Aug. 18 Supp.)



3.   Exceptions.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, parking
is authorized or prohibited along certain streets as hereinafter set forth:



   A.   Southwest 2nd Street.  Parallel parking is permitted on the
north side of Southwest 2nd Street between Southwest Cherry and Southwest
Walnut for a maximum time limit of four hours anytime during the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays.



   B.   Southwest Walnut Street.  Parallel parking is permitted on the
east side of Southwest Walnut Street between West 1st and Southwest 2nd for a
maximum time limit of four hours anytime during the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays.



4.   Exception – Southwest Ordnance Road.  Notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, the parking of motor vehicles on Southwest
Ordnance Road is authorized or prohibited as hereinafter provided:



   A.   The parking of motor vehicles is prohibited on both sides of
Southwest Ordnance Road from Highway 69 (South Ankeny Blvd.) to Southwest
Walnut Street.



   B.   The parking of motor vehicles is authorized on the north side
of Southwest Ordnance Road from Southwest Walnut Street west to Southwest
Westview Drive.



   C.   The parking of motor vehicles is prohibited on the south side
of Southwest Ordnance Road from Southwest Walnut Street west to Southwest
Westview Drive.



   D.   The parking of motor vehicles is prohibited on both sides of
Southwest Ordnance Road from Southwest Westview Drive to Southwest State
Street.



69.11  NO PARKING ON BOTH SIDES. 



Parking is prohibited on both sides of the following streets:



1.   Ankeny Industrial Park.  On both sides of the street on all streets
within an area bounded on the west by Ankeny Boulevard, on the east by
Delaware Avenue, on the north by Magazine Road, and on the south by Oralabor
Road.



2.   Major Thoroughfares.  On both sides of the following major
thoroughfares:



   A.   Southeast Creekview Drive;



   B.   Southeast Delaware Avenue;



   C.   Northeast Delaware Avenue;



   D.   Southeast Oralabor Road;



   E.   Southwest Oralabor Road;



   F.   Southeast Magazine Road;



   G.   South Ankeny Boulevard;



   H.   North Ankeny Boulevard;



   I.   Southeast Eastlawn Drive from Southeast Grant to Ankeny
Boulevard;



   J.   Southeast Peterson Drive from Southeast Grant to Ankeny
Boulevard;



   K.   Southeast 3rd Street from Southeast Grant to Ankeny Boulevard;



   L.   Southwest 3rd Street west from Ankeny Boulevard to Southwest
Pleasant Street;



   M.   Southwest 3rd Street from Maple Street to Scott Street, except
where head-in or angle parking exists, and from Southwest Scott Street West
to Southwest Flynn Drive, and from Southwest State Street to Southwest 3rd
Street Place;



   N.   Southwest 3rd Street Place from Southwest 3rd Street to
termination;



   O.   Southwest Linden Street from Southwest 3rd Street to West 1st
Street;



   P.   Southwest Goodwin Street from Southwest Ordnance Road south to
termination;



   Q.   Northwest Ash Drive;



   R.   East 1st Street;



   S.   West 1st Street;



   T.   Northwest Linden Street from West 1st Street to Northwest 2nd
Street;



   U.   Southeast Convenience Boulevard;



   V.   Northeast 18th Street;



   W.   Northwest 18th Street;



   X.   Northwest State Street;



(Ord. 1676 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



   Y.   Southwest State Street;



   Z.   Southwest Irvindale;



   AA.   Northwest Irvindale;



   BB.   Northeast 36th Street;



   CC.   Northwest 36th Street;



   DD.   I-35 within City limits.



69.12  TRUCK, TRAILER, AND BOAT PARKING LIMITED.



1.   No person shall park a motor truck having a freight capacity greater
than one ton, or any trailer, semi-trailer, tractor, road tractor or truck
tractor unit, boat, camper, recreational vehicle, motor home or equipment of
any type at any time upon any portion of any street except for such
reasonable time as may be necessary to load or unload passengers, freight, or
other merchandise.



2.   No person shall park any non-licensed construction equipment on a
street in a residential neighborhood for any period longer than two hours,
except while actively using the equipment during normal working hours.



3.   No person shall stand or park a tractor-trailer or semi-trailer on
any street in a residential area for any period longer than two hours, except
that the driver of a tractor-trailer or semi-trailer may temporarily stand or
park in a residential area for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading such vehicle.  This provision applies to the trailer
when disconnected from the tractor or from the vehicle meant to tow or pull
the trailer.



69.13  PARKING LIMITED TO TWO HOURS.



It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than two
hours upon the following designated streets:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])



1.   Cherry Street, on the east side from a point 66 feet south of 2nd
Street to 2nd Street;



2.   3rd Street, on the north side from Cherry Street to Pleasant Street,
and on the south side from Cherry Street to the alley between Pleasant Street
and Walnut Street, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., except on
Sundays and holidays;



3.   On Southwest Walnut Street from Southwest 3rd Street south to
Southwest 4th Street between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday;



4.   On the east side of Southwest Cherry Street from Southwest 2nd Street
south to a point 66 feet south of Southwest 2nd Street, and from a point 132
feet north of Southwest 3rd Street south to Southwest 3rd Street between 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday;



5.   On Southwest Cherry Street from Southwest 3rd Street south to
Southwest 4th Street between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.



69.14  SNOW ORDINANCE.



(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])



1.   Declaration.  To facilitate snow and ice removal operations, the
City Manager may by public media declare the Snow Ordinance to be in effect.



2.   Parking Regulations.  No person shall park, abandon, or leave
unattended any vehicle on any public street, alley, or on-street parking
within the City, except within the District at Prairie Trail and Uptown
business districts, when the Snow Ordinance is in effect.



3.   Parking Regulations within Business Districts.  No person shall
park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any on-street parking within
the District at Prairie Trail or Uptown business districts from 2 a.m. to 6
a.m. when the Snow Ordinance is in effect.  The boundaries of the District
at Prairie Trail and Uptown business districts are defined in the City's Snow
and Ice Control Plan, which is on file in the Public Works Department.



4.   Other Parking Regulations Superseded.  The provisions of this
section shall supersede all other parking regulations during the period of
time in which the Snow Ordinance is in effect.  Violation of this section
shall result in a scheduled fine as set forth in Chapter 70 of this Code.




(Ord. 1956 - Nov. 18 Supp.)




69.15  SNOW ROUTES.




(Repealed by Ord. 1956 - Nov. 18 Supp.)




69.16  NO PASSENGER LOADING OR UNLOADING.



No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with pedestrians or traffic, or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, and no person shall
load or unload a passenger or passengers from any vehicle at the following
places:



1.   On the west side of Northwest School Street, from the intersection of
Northwest School Street and West 1st Street to a point approximately 300 feet
north of the north curb line of West 1st Street.



2.   On the east side of Northwest School Street from West 1st Street to
Northwest 5th Street.



69.17  FIRE LANES.



No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a fire lane as provided
herein.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236)



1.   Fire Lanes Established.  The Fire Chief may designate fire lanes on
any private road or driveway where deemed necessary to assure access to
property or premises by authorized emergency vehicles.



2.   Signs and Markings.  Wherever a fire lane has been designated, the
Fire Chief shall cause appropriate signs and markings to be placed
identifying such fire lanes and the parking prohibition established by this
section.



3.   Exception.  The provisions of this section do not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.



69.18  CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.



Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 158 of this Code of Ordinances.



69.19  TEMPORARY NO PARKING.



The Public Works Director and the Police Chief each may, upon application and
good cause being shown therefor, authorize temporary no parking upon those
streets which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for such time period
as deemed appropriate by them.  Any such temporary no parking shall be
designated by a posted sign.  No person shall stop, park, or stand a vehicle
in violation of any such posted parking regulations unless in compliance with
the directions of a peace officer.



(Ord. 1740 - Jan. 13 Supp.)



CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES



 

70.01  Arrest or Citation
 
70.04  Parking Violations:  Vehicle Unattended


70.02  Scheduled Violations
 
70.05  Presumption in Reference to Illegal Parking


70.03  Parking Violations:  Alternate
 
70.06  Impounding Vehicles



 



70.01  ARREST OR CITATION.



Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:



1.   Immediate Arrest.  Immediately arrest such person and take such
person before a local magistrate, or



2.   Issue Citation.  Without arresting the person, prepare in
quintuplicate a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the
Iowa Commissioner of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint
utilizing a State-approved computerized device.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)



70.02  SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.



For violations of the Traffic Code which are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)



70.03  PARKING VIOLATIONS:  ALTERNATE.



Admitted violations or parking violations which are uncontested of parking
restrictions imposed by this Code of Ordinances may be charged upon a simple
notice of a fine payable to the office of the City Clerk.  The simple notice
of a fine shall be in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for all
violations except improper use of a persons with disabilities parking
permit.  The simple notice of a fine for improper use of a persons with
disabilities parking permit is one hundred dollars ($100.00).  Failure to
pay the fine shall be grounds for the filing of a complaint in District
Court.  For violation of section 69.14 of this Code, parking when the Snow
Ordinance is in effect, the scheduled fine shall be forty dollars ($40.00).



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1a] & 321L.4[2])




(Ord. 1956 - Nov. 18 Supp.)




70.04  PARKING VIOLATIONS:  VEHICLE UNATTENDED.



When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein
provided shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.



70.05  PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.



In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed
such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such
violation occurred, shall be raised by proof that:



1.   Described Vehicle.  The particular vehicle described in the
information was parked in violation of the Traffic Code, and



2.   Registered Owner.  The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.



70.06  IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.



A peace officer or community service officer is hereby authorized to remove,
or cause to be removed, a vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking
lot, or highway, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:



1.   Disabled Vehicle.  When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody or removal.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle.  When any vehicle is left unattended and
is so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to
the normal movement of traffic, including vehicles blocking driveways, fire
hydrants and crosswalks.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



3.   Snow and Ice Removal.  When any vehicle is left parked in violation
of the Snow Ordinance, as described in section 69.14 of this Code.



(Ord. 1956 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period.  When any vehicle is left parked
for a continuous period in violation of any limited parking time.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



5.   Costs.  In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES



 

75.01  Purpose
 
75.05  Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles


75.02  Definitions
 
75.06  Hours of Operation


75.03  General Regulations
 
75.07  Negligence


75.04  Operation of Snowmobiles
 
75.08  Accident Reports



 



75.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.



75.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized
flotation-tire vehicle, with not less than three and not more than six low
pressure tires, that is limited in engine displacement to less than one
thousand (1,000) cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to less than one
thousand (1,000) pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be
straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)



2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has
a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural
terrain.  “Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was
originally issued a certificate of title and registered for highway use under
Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that
enable operation over natural terrain.  An operator of an off-road
motorcycle is also subject to the provisions of this chapter governing the
operation of all-terrain vehicles.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)



3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized flotation-tire
vehicle, with not less than four and not more than six low pressure tires,
that is limited in engine displacement to less than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to not more than one
thousand eight hundred (1,800) pounds and that has a seat that is of bench
design, not intended to be straddled by the operator, and a steering wheel
for control.  An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to
the provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain
vehicles. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)



4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle weighing less than one
thousand (1,000) pounds which uses sled-type runners or skis, endless
belt-type tread with a width of forty-eight (48) inches or less, or any
combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed for travel on snow or
ice.  “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle which has
been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or treads.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)



75.03  GENERAL REGULATIONS.



No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their
registration, equipment, and manner of operation.



(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)



75.04  OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.



The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:



1.   Streets.  Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets which have
not been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by the Police Chief.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])



2.   Exceptions.  Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:



   A.   Emergencies.  Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])



   B.   Direct Crossing.  Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:



      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety
degrees (90°) to the direction of the street and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;



      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before
crossing the street;



      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming
traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard; and



      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only
at an intersection of such street with another street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])



3.   Railroad Right-of-way.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way.  A snowmobile may be driven directly across
a railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding
any other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of
the established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])



4.   Trails.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle
trails except where so designated.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])



5.   Parks and Other City Land.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.  A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.



6.   Sidewalk or Parking.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the
public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line
and the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking”
except for purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which
operation is authorized by this chapter.



7.   Private Property.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon private
property without the consent of the owner or occupier thereof.



75.05  OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.



The operators of ATVs shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where ATVs may be operated within the City:



1.   Streets.  ATVs may be operated on streets only in accordance with
Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets as may be designated
by resolution of the Council for the sport of driving ATVs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1& 3])



2.   Trails.  ATVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])



3.   Railroad Right-of-way.  ATVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way.  An ATV may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])



4.   Parks and Other City Land.  ATVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. 



5.   Sidewalk or Parking.  ATVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”



6.   Private Property.  ATVs shall not be operated upon private property
without the consent of the owner or occupier thereof.



75.06  HOURS OF OPERATION.



No snowmobile shall be operated in the City between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 9:00 a.m. within 150 feet of any dwelling house without the consent of
the occupants of said dwelling, except for emergency situations or for
loading and unloading from a transport trailer.



75.07  NEGLIGENCE.



The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile.  The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to
operate the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)



75.08  ACCIDENT REPORTS.



Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to anyone or property damage amounting to one thousand dollars
($1000.00) or more, either the operator or someone acting for the operator
shall immediately notify a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident
report, in accordance with State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)



CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS



 

76.01  Scope of Regulations
 
76.08  Carrying Articles


76.02  Traffic Code Applies
 
76.09  Riding on Sidewalks


76.03  Double Riding Restricted
 
76.10  Towing


76.04  Two Abreast Limit
 
76.11  Improper Riding


76.05  Bicycle Paths
 
76.12  Parking


76.06  Speed
 
76.13  Equipment Requirements


76.07  Emerging from Alley or Driveway
 
76.14  Special Penalty



 



76.01  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.



These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject
to those exceptions stated herein.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.02  TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.



Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of
a vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application.  Whenever such person dismounts from a bicycle the person shall
be subject to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)



76.03  DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.



A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto.  No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])



76.04  TWO ABREAST LIMIT.



Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.  All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right
and shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the
roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.05  BICYCLE PATHS.



Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.06  SPEED.



No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.07  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.



The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, trail, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area.  The operator of a bicycle emerging from an
alley, trail, sidewalk, driveway or building and upon entering the roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])




(Ord. 1782 - Jan. 14 Supp.)




76.08  CARRYING ARTICLES.



No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.09  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.



The following shall apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:



1.   Business District.  No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



2.   Other Locations.  When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



3.   Yield Right-of-way.  Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and
shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.10  TOWING.



It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle, person, skateboard, toy or any item constructed with wheels by
a rope, chain or tether upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is
manufactured for such use and connects directly to the bicycle.




(Ord. 1782 - Jan. 14 Supp.)




76.11  IMPROPER RIDING.



No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.



76.12  PARKING.



No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.13  EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.



Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:



1.   Lamps Required.  Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from
a distance of at least three hundred (300) feet to the front and with a lamp
on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the
rear except that a red reflector on the rear, of a type which shall be
visible from all distances from fifty (50) feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may
be used in lieu of a rear light.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)



2.   Brakes Required.  Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which
will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.14  SPECIAL PENALTY.



Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
the Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the
City for not less than five (5) days for the first offense, ten (10) days for
a second offense and thirty (30) days for a third offense.



CHAPTER 77
BICYCLE REGISTRATION



(Chapter 77 Repealed by Ordinance No. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES



 

80.01  Violation of Regulations
 
80.02  Fees for Impoundment


 
80.03  Abandoned Vehicles



 



80.01  VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.



Section 321.89 of the Code of Iowa is adopted by reference and declared to be
a part of this chapter.  Any person who fails to abide by the applicable
provisions contained in said Section 321.89 of the Code of Iowa relating to
abandoned vehicles is in violation of this chapter. 



80.02  FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.



The City may assess an administrative fee to recover costs associated with
tows and impounds.  Such fee shall be set by resolution of the Council.



80.03    ABANDONED VEHICLES. 



A property owner shall have the right to employ a garage keeper to dispose of
an abandoned vehicle and the garage keeper may take custody of the abandoned
vehicle without the initiative of the City police authority.



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS



 

81.01  Definitions
 
81.03  Obstructing Streets


81.02  Warning Signals
 
81.04  Crossing Maintenance



 



81.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation or
other association which owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.



2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)



81.02  WARNING SIGNALS.



Operators shall sound a horn at least 1,000 feet before a street crossing is
reached and after sounding the horn, shall ring the bell continuously until
the crossing is passed.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.13)



81.03  OBSTRUCTING STREETS.



Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent
vehicular use of any highway, street, or alley for a period of time in excess
of ten (10) minutes except:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)



1.   Comply with Signals.  When necessary to comply with signals
affecting the safety of the movement of trains.



2.   Avoid Striking.  When necessary to avoid striking any object or
person on the track.



3.   Disabled.  When the train is disabled.



4.   Safety Regulations.  When necessary to comply with governmental
safety regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.



5.   In Motion.  When the train is in motion except while engaged in
switching operations.



6.   No Traffic.  When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing. 



An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors.  Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation.



81.04  CROSSING MAINTENANCE.



Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.



(Bourett vs. Chicago & N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)



CHAPTER 82
MULTI-USE RECREATIONAL TRAILS



 

82.01  Definition
 
82.04  Hours of Permitted Use


82.02  Permitted Uses
 
82.05  Official Signs


82.03  Uses Not Permitted
 
82.06  Reasonable Speed




82.01  DEFINITION. 




   Multi-use recreational trails mean a way or place, the use of which is
controlled by the City, designated by the multi-use recreational trail maps,
as approved by the Park Board, and no multi-use recreational trail shall be
considered as a street or highway.



82.02  PERMITTED USES. 



Except as otherwise provided, the following uses are permitted on multi-use
recreational trails:



   1.   Persons walking, jogging or running;



   2.   Persons utilizing or operating a non-motorized device, such as
a bicycle, skateboard, inline skates or wheelchair;



   3.   Persons with mobility disabilities using manually operated or
power-driven wheelchairs and manually powered mobility aids for the purpose
of locomotion;



   4.   Persons with mobility disabilities using an other power-driven
mobility device for the purpose of locomotion, as provided in 28 CFR 35;



   5.   Official emergency vehicles and authorized maintenance vehicles
as necessary to perform the duties of the operator.



82.03  USES NOT PERMITTED. 



   Except as otherwise provided, the following uses are not permitted on
multi-use recreational trails:



   1.   Motorized vehicles, except where the trail utilizes an existing
road, street or highway;



   2.   Equestrian uses;



   3.   Skateboards are not permitted on the portions of trails that
utilize an existing road, street or highway.



82.04  HOURS OF PERMITTED USE. 



   Multi-use recreational trails shall be open for use by the public for
recreation and transportation at all times, except for the following:



   1.   Hours of use of sections of trails may be limited by the Park
Board;



   2.   Sections of trails may be closed temporarily in emergency
situations by the Park Director.



82.05  OFFICIAL SIGNS. 



   Every user of a recreational trail shall observe and obey any and all
official signs posted along a recreational trail, including, but not limited
to, speed limits, hours of use, stop signs and yield signs.



82.06  REASONABLE SPEED. 



   Each person using the trail shall travel at a speed that is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing and shall not travel in such a
manner as to constitute a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property.



(Chapter 82 – Ord. 1717 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM



 



90.01  Definitions
 
90.12  Responsibility for Water Service Pipe


90.02  Administrator’s Duties
 
90.13  Failure to Maintain


90.03  Mandatory Connections
 
90.14  Curb Stop Shutoff Valve


90.04  Abandoned Connections
 
90.15  Interior Valve


90.05  Permit
 
90.16  Inspection and Approval


90.06  Fee for Permit
 
90.17  Completion by the City


90.07  Compliance with Plumbing Code
 
90.18  Shutting off Water Supply


90.08  Plumber Required
 
90.19  Operation of Curb Stop Shutoff Valve and Hydrants


90.09  Excavations
 
90.20  Water Supply


90.10  Tapping Mains
 
90.21  Prohibited Acts


90.11  Installation of Water Service Pipe
 
90.22  Reasons for Discontinuance of Water Service


 
90.23  Penalties




 



90.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:



1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for
the provision of two or more utility services.



2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water
service from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such
parties the duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter
imposed shall be joint and several.



3.   “Administrator” means the Administrator of the City water system
or any duly authorized assistant, agent or representative.



4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or
community use and includes service connections up to and including the curb
stop shutoff valve.



5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the curb stop shutoff
valve to the building served.



6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities
for securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, distributing and
metering water.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.02  ADMINISTRATOR’S DUTIES. 



The Administrator shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter.  This chapter
shall apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to
new ones.  The Administrator shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of
the water system, subject to the approval of the Council.  In the event of
an emergency the Administrator may make temporary rules for the protection of
the system until due consideration by the Council may be had.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



90.03  MANDATORY CONNECTIONS. 



The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within sixty
(60) days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said
public water main is located within two hundred (200) feet of the property
line of such owner.



90.04  ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.



When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a
new tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned
off at the corporation stop, capped, and made absolutely watertight.



90.05  PERMIT.



Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City.  The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water.  If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this
chapter and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the
permit shall be issued.  Work under any permit must be completed within
sixty (60) days after the permit is issued, except that when such time period
is inequitable or unfair due to conditions beyond the control of the person
making the application, an extension of time within which to complete the
work may be granted.  The permit may be revoked at any time for any
violation of these chapters.



90.06  FEE FOR PERMIT.



Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application shall pay
$150.00 plus the cost of the water meter for residential premises and $250.00
plus the cost of the water meter for commercial premises to the City to cover
the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and inspecting
the work and to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in making
water service available to the property served.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



90.07  COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.



The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of International Plumbing
Code and the Iowa Public Health Department rules (IAC 641-25.5) for backflow
prevention.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.08  PLUMBER REQUIRED.



All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a plumber licensed by the City. 



90.09  EXCAVATIONS.



All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with applicable excavation provisions as
provided for installation of building sewers and/or the provisions of Chapter
151 of this Code of Ordinances.



90.10  TAPPING MAINS.



All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Administrator and in accord with the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   Independent Services.  No more than one house, building or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Administrator and unless provision is made so that each house,
building or premises may be shut off independently of the other.



2.   Sizes and Location of Taps.  The size of the lateral and service
lines shall be as follows:



   A.   For single-family dwellings, one-inch from water main to water
meter;



   B.   For two-family dwellings, one-inch from water main to water
meter, and each dwelling unit must be served by a separate curb stop shutoff
valve and meter;



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



   C.   For multi-family dwellings of 3 to 7 dwelling units, one-inch
from water main to meter;



   D.   For multi-family dwellings of 8 to 24 dwelling units, two-inch
copper pipe or three-inch C900 polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe from water main
to curb stop shutoff valve and one-inch from each curb stop shutoff valve to
each water meter if each unit is served by a separate curb stop shutoff valve
and meter; or two-inch copper pipe or three-inch C900 PVC pipe from water
main to water meter if all units are served by one meter;



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



   E.   For multiple dwellings of 25 dwelling units and above,
three-inch copper pipe or four-inch C900 PVC from water main to curb stop
shutoff valve and one-inch from each curb stop shutoff valve to each water
meter if each unit is served by a separate curb stop shutoff valve and meter;
or three-inch copper pipe or four-inch C900 PVC pipe from water main to water
meter if all units are served by one meter.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



   F.   Where a larger connection than a one-inch tap is desired, the
size and method of tapping shall be authorized by the Administrator.  All
taps in the mains shall be made in the top half of the pipe, at least
eighteen (18) inches apart. No main shall be tapped nearer than two (2) feet
of the joint in the main.  Saddles are required for taps up to and including
two-inch diameter.  Taps greater than two-inch diameter require tapping
sleeve and valve.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



3.   Corporation Stop.  A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and
weight approved by the Administrator, shall be inserted in every tap in the
main.  The corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the
service pipe.



4.   Location Record.  An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the
exact location of the tap shall be filed with the Administrator in such form
as the Administrator shall require.



5.   Costs.  All costs and expenses incident to the tapping into a water
main and installation of the corporation stop, service pipe and curb stop
shutoff valve shall be borne by the property owner.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



6.   Individual curb stop shutoff valves shall be located outside of
buildings within aneasement, right-of-way, or other location as approved by
the Administrator.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.11  INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.



Water service pipes from the curb stop shutoff valve to the meter setting
must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such depth, as to prevent rupture
from settlement or freezing.  After the main or lateral water service lines
are laid, the excavation shall be refilled with dirt or sand.  If refilled
with dirt, it must be in layers with each layer thoroughly tamped and packed
to prevent settlement.  The surface of the area excavated must be returned
to its condition prior to the excavation and to the satisfaction of the City.



90.12  RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.



All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the curb stop shutoff valve to the
building served shall be borne by the property owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation or maintenance of said water service pipe.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.13  FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.



When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance the City may discontinue water service, correct the
nuisance and assess the costs thereof to the property.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])



90.14  CURB STOP SHUTOFF VALVE.



There shall be installed within the public right-of-way, or within an
easement granted to the City, a main curb stop shutoff valve on the water
service pipe of a pattern approved by the Administrator.  The curb stop
shutoff valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement
or ground.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.15  INTERIOR VALVE.



There shall be installed a shutoff valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently ahead of the meter
installation.  Where one service pipe supplies more than one customer within
the building, there shall be separate valves for each such customer so that
service may be shut off for one without interfering with service to the
others.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.16  INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.



All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the code enforcement officer before they
are covered, and the code enforcement officer shall keep a record of such
approvals.  If the code enforcement officer refuses to approve the work, the
plumber or property owner must proceed immediately to correct the work. 
Every person who uses or intends to use the municipal water system shall
permit the code enforcement officer to enter the premises to inspect or make
necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable hours and on proof of
authority.



90.17  COMPLETION BY THE CITY.



Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for twenty-four
(24) hours after the water service pipe is installed and connected with the
water system, or should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the
right to finish or correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs
to the property owner or the plumber.  If the plumber is assessed, the
plumber must pay the costs before receiving another permit.  If the property
owner is assessed, such assessment may be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])



90.18  SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.



The Administrator may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water chapters.  The
supply shall not be turned on again until all violations have been corrected
and the Administrator has ordered the water to be turned on.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.19  OPERATION OF CURB STOP SHUTOFF VALVE AND HYDRANTS.



It is unlawful for any person except the Administrator to turn water on at
the curb stop shutoff valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by
the City, shall open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any
purpose whatsoever.  The City shall maintain all fire hydrants. 
Maintenance performed on private fire hydrants shall be paid for by the
property owner.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.20  WATER SUPPLY.



The City does not guarantee a constant supply of water to any customer and
shall not be liable for failure to supply the same.  The City may limit the
use of water in the event of an emergency wherein the supply of water is
limited or needed to meet the emergency.



90.21  PROHIBITED ACTS.



It is unlawful for any person to injure, destroy, deface, or disturb any
portion of the waterworks system, to interfere with or obstruct the water
supply, or to tamper with or turn a water valve for the purpose of turning on
water service which has previously been disconnected, without permission of
the City.  Further, it is unlawful to make use of water which is provided
through a shut-off valve which has been turned on without permission of the
City.  It is unlawful to interfere with normal distribution system
pressures, to impede, obstruct, or otherwise cause any potential hazards to
the water system. 



90.22  REASONS FOR DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.



Water service may be discontinued by the City upon reasonable notice to the
customer for any violation of any rule, regulation, or condition of service
and especially for any of the following reasons:



1.   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures
to be supplied or use to be made of water;



2.   Failure to report to the City additions to the property or fixtures
to the supplies or additional use to be made of water;



3.   Resale or giving away of water;



4.   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes
and/or fixtures or failure to keep the same in a suitable state of repair;



5.   Tampering with the meter, meter seal, service or valves, or
permitting such tampering by others;



6.   Connection, cross-connection or permitting the same, of any separate
water supply to premises which receive water from the City;



7.   Nonpayment of bills as provided in Section 92.09;



8.   Failure to allow City access to service or install meters;



9.   Failure to submit an application for utility service as provided in
Section 92.02;



10.   Any unlawful acts or violation of the regulations contained in these
Water chapters or Sanitary Sewer chapters.



(Subsections 7-10 – Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



90.23    PENALTIES.



Acts in violation of this chapter constitute a municipal infraction under
Chapter 4 of the Municipal Code of the City of Ankeny, Iowa.  In addition to
the discontinuance of water service provided for under Section 90.18, the
following schedule of civil penalties for specific prohibited acts are
applicable under this chapter and shall be assessed by the issuance of a
civil citation by an officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code:



1.   Operation of a curb stop shutoff valve is subject to a $250.00
penalty for the first offense and $500.00 for each repeat offense.



2.   Operation of a hydrant is subject to a $750.00 penalty for the first
offense and $1,000.00 for each repeat offense.



3.   Illegal use of water is subject to a $750.00 penalty for the first
offense and $1,000.00 for each repeat offense.



4.   Tampering with a meter is subject to a $750.00 penalty for the first
offense and $1,000.00 for each repeat offense.



(Ord. 1758 - Apr. 13 Supp.)



CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS



 

91.01  Purpose
 
91.07  Meter Repairs


91.02  Water Use Metered
 
91.08  Seasonal Meter Removal


91.03  Fire Sprinkler Systems – Exception
 
91.09  Right of Entry


91.04  Location of Meters
 
91.10  Meter Testing


91.05  Meter Setting
 
91.11  Remote Reading Device


91.06  Meter Costs
 
91.12  Temporary Water Service



 



91.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.



91.02  WATER USE METERED.



All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by
the City and installed by the City in accord with the following:



1.   Independent Units.  Each house, building, or individually owned unit
shall be individually metered unless special written permission is obtained
from the Administrator.



2.   Multiple Units. 



   A.   Multiple-family dwellings of two or more units or multi-unit
commercial or industrial premises shall have each unit metered and billed
individually, if individual curb stop shutoff valves are available for each
unit.



   B.   Multiple-family dwellings or multiple-tenant commercial or
industrial buildings that do not have separate curb stop shutoff valves and
separate meters shall be metered and billed to the property owner, who is
responsible for payment for the water used.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



3.   Irrigation Systems.



   A.   Separate irrigation meters are allowed for commercial,
industrial or multiple-family dwellings only.  Meter size shall be approved
by the Administrator, with a maximum size of 1 1/2 inches.  Meters must be
inside a building or heated enclosure.  Meters located outside of a building
must have a separate service address and a separate shutoff valve.  The
service line shall be copper piping from water main to meter.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



91.03  FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS – EXCEPTION.



Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Administrator. No open
connection can be incorporated in the system.  There shall be no valves
except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which must be
sealed open, and a valve at the tap to the water main for City use only.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



91.04  LOCATION OF METERS.



All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter
readers and maintenance staff and protected from freezing and any other
harmful elements or conditions (e.g., dirt, chemicals, manufacturing
activities, etc.).



91.05  METER SETTING.



The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Backflow preventers must be supported.  Meter pits may be used only upon
approval of the Administrator and shall be of a design and construction
approved by the Administrator.  Meter pits are not allowed for irrigation
meters.  The City shall not be liable for the defacement or damage of any
property caused by holes, fastening or other work required for the
installation of meters or remote meter reading devices, except damage caused
by the City’s own negligence.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



91.06  METER COSTS.



The full cost of any meter shall be paid to the City by the property owner or
customer prior to the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the
sole option of the City, the property owner or customer may be required to
purchase and install such meter in accordance with requirements established
by the City.



91.07  METER REPAIRS.



Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Administrator shall have it repaired.  If it is found that damage to the
meter has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or
property owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property
owner shall be liable for the cost of repairs.



91.08  SEASONAL METER REMOVAL.



Irrigation meters located outside a building shall be temporarily removed for
winter protection.  Meter removals and reinstallations shall be done by the
City at a time scheduled by the property owner.  There shall be a $35.00
service charge for meter removal, and a $35.00 service charge for
reinstallation.  There shall be no service availability charges while
service is discontinued as provided herein.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



91.09  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



The Administrator or designee shall be permitted to enter the premises of any
customer at any reasonable scheduled time to read, inspect, test, remove, or
change a meter.  Failure by the customer to allow reasonable access to the
meter is cause for termination of water service.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



91.10  METER TESTING.



The Administrator or any designee shall make a test of the accuracy of any
water meter at any time when requested in writing.  If it is found that such
meter overruns to the extent of 5% or more, the cost of the test shall be
borne by the City and a refund shall be made to the customer for overcharges
collected, but not more than 5% of the total water bill and not for a longer
period than 3 months.  If the meter is found to be accurate, slow, or less
than 5% fast, the user shall pay a testing charge of $50.00 for meters 1" and
smaller.  For meters larger than 1", the user shall pay a testing charge of
$50.00 plus the calculated staff time needed to perform the test.



(Ord. 1946 - Aug. 18 Supp.)



91.11  REMOTE READING DEVICE.



All water meters shall be equipped with the City’s remote meter reading
device. 



91.12    TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE.



1.   Connection.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 90.05,
92.11, or other provisions of this chapter, temporary water service may be
provided by the City to any real estate site upon which a building is being
constructed, without a meter being installed on said premises, provided that
a temporary water service permit has been issued in accordance with the
provisions of subsection 2 of this section.  However, in no event shall
water that is provided through the issuance of a temporary water service
permit be used to water any sod, seed, or other landscaping upon the site to
be served by such permit unless a water meter is provided.  Unmetered water
shall not be used to cause compaction around structures or other excavations.



2.   Application Fee.  Any person who desires temporary water service to
any site as provided for in subsection 1 must make application with the City
Planning and Building Department for such service.  Every applicant for a
temporary water service connection permit shall pay to the City the sum of
$100.00 for such permit, as advance payment for the water to be used during
the period of such permit.  The temporary permit shall automatically expire
upon installation of a meter or at the expiration of one year from the date
of issuance, whichever occurs first.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES



 



92.01  Definitions
 
92.09  Service Discontinued


92.02  Applications for the Use of Water
 
92.10  Lien for Nonpayment


92.03  Service Charges
 
92.11  Lien Exemption


92.04  Rates For Service
 
92.12  Lien Notice


92.05  Rates Outside the City
 
92.13  Customer Deposits


92.06  Rates for Bulk Water
 
92.14  Temporary Vacancy


92.07  Rates for Hydrant Meters
 
92.15  Transfer of Account Balance


92.08  Billing for Water Service
 
92.16  Leak Allowances


 
92.17  Billing Errors




 



92.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.



1.   “Billing agency” means the City of Ankeny Finance Department or
any other agency designated by the City to maintain utility customer
accounts, read meters, prepare and mail bills or other correspondence, and
account for utility payments.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



2.   “Monthly charge” means that monthly charge to the customer
composed of both the service availability charges and the metered usage
charge along with any other taxes, service charges, etc.  The monthly
payment shall be payable to the City’s billing agency.



3.   “Service availability charge” means a fixed charge imposed on
each separately metered residential, commercial, industrial, or educational
premises which is physically connected to the utility, consisting of the
Monthly Equivalent Meter Cost, based on the water meter size at the premises,
plus the Billing Cost.



4.   “Usage charge” means the metered charge imposed for the
consumption of water, pursuant to Section 92.03.



92.02  APPLICATIONS FOR THE USE OF WATER.



Applications for the use of water shall be made by submittal of an
application form and providing a government-issued ID.  If a delinquent
amount is owed by the applicant for a utility service associated with a prior
property or premises, the City may withhold service from the same customer at
any new property or premises until such time as the customer pays the
delinquent amount owing on the account associated with the prior property or
premises.  If the account balance at the prior premises is due but not
delinquent, the unpaid charges including any late payment penalty will be
transferred to the new account.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



92.03  SERVICE CHARGES.



Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon
factors described in Section 92.03 for the service availability charge and on
use of water as determined by meters provided for in Chapter 91.  Each
location, building, premises or connection shall be considered a separate and
distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the same person or not.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



92.04  RATES FOR SERVICE.



The City Council shall annually review the rates charged for water service
within the City to insure that such rates shall produce gross revenue at
least sufficient to pay the expenses of operation, maintenance and
replacement of the water utility, and will leave a balance of net revenues
sufficient at all times to pay the principal of, and interest on any
outstanding revenue bonds and pledge orders as they become due, and will
maintain a reasonable reserve for the payment of principal and interest.  To
insure sufficient gross revenues for such purposes, the following schedule of
rates and charges is imposed. 



1.   For bills due and payable on or after April 1, 2017, the following
rates apply:



   A.   Service Availability Charge.  There is imposed for each
billing period a service availability charge to each separately metered
residential, commercial, industrial or educational premises, directly or
indirectly served by a connection to the waterworks system, based on the
following:



 




Meter Size

 

Meter Equivalency Factor

 

Monthly Equivalent Meter Cost

 

Monthly Billing Cost

 

Monthly SAC Charge




5/8"

 

1

 

$   6.92

 

$   1.91

 

$   8.83




3/4"

 

1.5

 

$   10.38

 

$   1.91

 

$   12.29




1"

 

2.5

 

$   17.30

 

$   1.91

 

$   19.21




1 1/2"

 

5

 

$   34.60

 

$   1.91

 

$   36.51




2"

 

8

 

$   55.36

 

$   1.91

 

$   57.27




3"

 

17.5

 

$   121.10

 

$   1.91

 

$   123.01




4"

 

50

 

$346.00

 

$   1.91

 

$   347.91




6"

 

100

 

$692.00

 

$   1.91

 

$   693.91




8"

 

175

 

$1,211.00

 

$   1.91

 

$   1,212.91





 



   B.   Water Use Rates.  In addition to the service availability
charge, there are imposed the following water rate charges based on actual
metered usage during the billing period for which such charges are assessed:



      (1)   For the first 5,000 gallons used, $4.67 per 1,000
gallons, plus



      (2)   For all gallons used in excess of 5,000 gallons, $6.56
per 1,000 gallons.



(Ord. 1938 - May 18 Supp.)



(Ord. 1904 - May 17 Supp.)



92.05  RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.



Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the rates provided in Section 92.02.  No such
customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have signed a
service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 & 384.84)



92.06  RATES FOR BULK WATER.



Bulk water can be obtained at the City water shop and transported in a water
tank furnished by the customer that is acceptable to the Administrator. 
Bulk water will be billed at the rate of two (2) times the rate per 1,000
gallons as listed in Section 92.04 (1).



(Ord. 1946 - Aug. 18 Supp.)



92.07  RATES FOR HYDRANT METERS.



Hydrant meters can be obtained from the Administrator for temporary use. 
Monthly meter rental rates are as follows:



 


Meter Size

 

Monthly Rental




¾”

 

$40.00




1”

 

$50.00




3”

 

$150.00




Water usage measured by the hydrant meter will be billed at the bulk rate per
1,000 gallons as listed in Section 92.04 (1).



(Ord. 1946 - Aug. 18 Supp.)



92.08  BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.



Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable
in accordance with the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



1.   Bills Issued.  The billing agency shall prepare and issue bills for
combined service accounts each month.



2.   Bills Payable.  Bills for combined service accounts shall be due
when billed and payable at the office of the billing agency.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



3.   Late Payment Penalty.  Bills not paid within 25 days of the billing
date shall be considered delinquent.  A late payment penalty of five percent
(5%) of the amount due shall be added to each delinquent bill.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



92.09  SERVICE DISCONTINUED.



Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued in accordance
with the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



   1.   Notice.  The City shall notify each delinquent customer that
service will be discontinued if payment of the combined service account,
including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified in the
notice of delinquency.  Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance.



(Ord. 1632 – Apr. 09 Supp.)



   2.   Notice to Landlords.  If the customer is a tenant, the notice
of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



   3.   Hearing.  If a hearing is requested by noon of the day
preceding the shut off, the City Manager shall conduct an informal hearing
and shall make a determination as to whether the disconnection is
justified.  The customer has the right to appeal the City Manager’s
decision to the Council, and if the Council finds that disconnection is
justified, then such disconnection shall be made, unless payment has been
received.



   4.   Fees.  A fee of $50.00 for service restoration will be applied
to all accounts when a water service is terminated due to non-payment. 
Water service terminated under the provisions of this section may be restored
upon application for restoration by the customer and upon payment of the
service restoration fee, plus an additional after hours fee of $25.00 if the
restoration service is requested at a time other than during normal working
hours. In addition to the service restoration fee, the applicant shall also
pay any delinquent charges and penalties.  All applications for service
restoration and the payment of all delinquent amounts must be made at the
offices of the City’s billing agency.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



92.10  LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.



There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a fifty dollar ($50.00) deposit intended to guarantee the payment of
bills for service.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



92.11  LIEN EXEMPTION.



The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to a residential rental property
where water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the
water service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord
gives written notice to the City that the property is residential rental
property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges.  The City
may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of ninety (90) days of
water service be paid to the City.  When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if the water service charges are
paid in full.  A change in the ownership of the residential rental property
shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City within
ten business days of the completion of the change of ownership.  The lien
exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs to a water service.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



92.12    LIEN NOTICE. 



A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant, the notice shall also be given to the owner or
landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons by ordinary
mail not less than thirty (30) days prior to certification of the lien to the
County Treasurer.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



92.13    CUSTOMER DEPOSITS. 



There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a one hundred dollar ($100.00) deposit intended to guarantee the
payment of bills for service.  The deposit will be invoiced on the first
bill.  The deposit will be applied to the final bill when the customer
notifies the utility of the date the service is to be terminated and provides
a forwarding address for use in mailing a refund in the event the final bill
is less than the deposit.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



92.14    TEMPORARY VACANCY. 



A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and
shut off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time.  There shall be a $25.00 fee collected for
restoring service during normal working hours or $40.00 if the restoration
service is requested at a time other than during normal working hours. 
During a period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein
there shall be no service availability charge.  The City will not drain
pipes or pull meters for temporary vacancies.



92. 15    TRANSFER OF ACCOUNT BALANCE.



Charges due or delinquent on closed accounts may be applied to any other
account of the same customer. (Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



92.16    LEAK ALLOWANCES.



Leak allowances for sewer and/or water usage fees may be granted on a one
time only per customer basis, after a leak has been discovered and
repaired.  The volume of water leaked will be calculated based upon the
metered water usage while the leak was present, not to exceed three months,
compared to the normal metered water usage with no leak.  Allowances are
available for inside plumbing leaks, but not for leaks in irrigation systems
or other exterior water fixtures.  The leak allowance consists of a credit
of 50% of the billed amount for the volume of leaked water.



(Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



92.17    BILLING ERRORS.



In the event of the discovery by the City of Ankeny of an error in the amount
billed for water service, the amount due to or from the affected customer to
rectify the billing error shall be refunded or collected within 45 days. 
For billing error periods that exceed five (5) years, the amount to be
refunded or collected shall be limited by a retroactive adjustment to no more
than five (5) years prior to the date of the discovery of the billing error.



(Ord. 1941 - May 18 Supp.)



CHAPTER 93
BACKFLOW PREVENTION



 

93.01  Definitions
 
93.05  Customer Requirements


93.02  Water Utility Administrative Authority
 
93.06  Backflow Prevention Assembly Testing


93.03  Backflow Prevention Assemblies for Containment
 
93.07  Termination for Noncompliance


93.04  Backflow Prevention Assemblies for Fire Protection Systems
 



 



93.01  DEFINITIONS. 



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.



1.   “Approved backflow prevention assembly for containment” means a
backflow prevention assembly which is approved by the University of Southern
California Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research. 
The approval listing shall include the limitations of use based on the degree
of hazard.  The backflow prevention assembly shall also be listed by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) or by
the American Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE) as having met the
requirements of ANSI/AWWA C510-07 Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention
Assembly, or ANSI/AWWA C511-07, Reduced-Pressure Principle (RPZ) Backflow
Prevention Assembly.



2.   “Approved backflow prevention assembly for containment in a fire
protection system” means a backflow prevention assembly to be used in a
fire protection system which meets the requirements of Factory Mutual
Research Corporation (FM) and Underwriters Laboratory (UL), in addition to
the requirements of 93.01, Paragraph 1.



3.   “Auxiliary water supply” means any water supply on or available
to the premises other than the City’s public water supply such as, but not
limited to a private well, pond, or river.



4.   “Containment” means a method of backflow prevention which
requires a backflow prevention assembly on certain water services. 
Containment requires that the backflow prevention assembly be installed on
the water service as close to the public water supply main as is practical. 
Directly after the discharge end of the water meter is the best location.



5.   “Cross connection” means any connection or arrangement, physical
or otherwise, between a potable water supply system and any plumbing fixtures
or tank, receptacle, equipment, or device, through which it may be possible
for non potable, used, unclean, polluted, or contaminated water, or other
substance, to enter into any part of such potable water system under any
condition, including but not limited to lawn or other landscaping irrigation
systems, water powered or water assisted sump pumps, yard hydrants, or other
potentially hazardous water connections.



6.   “Customer” means the owner, operator, or occupant of a building
or property which has a water service from the public water system, or the
owner or operator of a private water system which has water service from the
public water system.



7.   “Degree of hazard” means the rating of a cross connection or a
water service which indicates if it has the potential to cause contamination
(high hazard) or adverse effects (low hazard).



8.   “Double check valve backflow prevention assembly” means a
backflow prevention assembly consisting of two independently acting
internally loaded check valves, four properly located test cocks, and two
isolation valves.  The degree of hazardous substance will dictate allowable
materials to be used for the device and fittings, i.e. brass, stainless
steel, etc.



9.   “High hazard cross connection” means a cross connection which may
cause an impairment of the quality of the potable water by creating an actual
hazard to the public health, through poisoning or through the spread of
disease by sewage, industrial fluids or wastes.



10.   “Isolation” means a preferred method of backflow prevention
which requires the installation of a backflow prevention assembly at a
suitable location within a plumbing system to isolate a known or possible
hazardous cross connection (e.g. boilers, commercial or industrial mixing
processes, irrigation systems, etc.) rather than at the water service
entrance.



11.   “Licensed backflow prevention assembly technician” means a
person meeting all requirements for the testing and repair of backflow
prevention assemblies and who is licensed and registered with the Iowa
Department of Public Health.



12.   “Low hazard cross connection” means a cross connection which may
cause an impairment of the quality of potable water to a degree which does
not cause a hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such potable waters for
domestic use.



13.   “Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly” also
referred to as a “Reduced pressure zone (RPZ)” device means a backflow
prevention assembly consisting of two independently acting internally loaded
check valves, a different pressure relief valve, four properly located test
cocks, and two isolation valves.  This assembly is required on all lawn or
other landscaping irrigation systems, chemically treated boiler systems, or
any system where any potential hazardous chemicals are present or can be
introduced into the public water system during a failure of that system.



14.   “Water Service”, depending on the context, means the physical
connection between a public water system and a customer’s building,
property or private water system, or the act of providing potable water from
a public water system to a customer.



93.02  WATER UTILITY ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.



1.   The administrative authority for this chapter is the City Council
acting through the water utility or such persons or departments the City
Council shall designate.



2.   The City shall require the submission of plans, specifications and
other information deemed necessary for a building, property or private water
system to which a water service is proposed.  The information submitted
shall be reviewed to determine if cross connections will exist and the degree
of hazard.  Each customer shall survey the activities and processes which
receive water from the water service and shall report to the City if cross
connections exist and the degree of hazard.



3.   The owner of a building, property or private water system shall
install, or cause to be installed, an approved backflow prevention assembly
for containment as directed by the City before water service is initiated.



4.   The City shall have the right to access any property to inspect the
plumbing of any building, property and private water system which has a water
service to determine if cross connections exist and the degree of hazard. 
Failure to grant access for inspection shall be cause for termination of
water service. 



5.   If the City determines that non-potable water may potentially enter
the public water supply, the customer shall be required to install the
appropriate backflow prevention assembly for containment.  If a customer
refuses to install a backflow prevention assembly for containment when it is
required, water service to the customer may be discontinued until an
appropriate backflow prevention assembly is installed.



6.   Dual connections with a direct connection to the public water supply
and other auxiliary supplies such as wells, ponds, rivers, industrial waters
are strictly prohibited.



7.   The City shall maintain all pertinent records of cross connection
surveys, installations, testing records, or other required records.



93.03  BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES FOR CONTAINMENT. 



1.   Backflow prevention assemblies for containment shall be installed
immediately following the water meter or as close to that location as deemed
practical by the City.



2.   A water service determined to present a high hazard shall be
protected by an air gap or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly.



3.   A water service determined to present a low hazard shall be protected
by an approved double check valve assembly, or an assembly approved in
subsection 2. above.



93.04  BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.



1.   A fire protection system using antifreezes or other additives shall
be protected by an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly.



2.   A dry type fire protection system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve backflow prevention assembly. 



3.   Backflow prevention assemblies must be tested annually on a routine
scheduled basis by the required licensed technician.  The City of Ankeny
fire marshal and water utility are both to be copied with test results.



93.05  CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS.



1.   The customer shall be responsible for ensuring that no cross
connections exist without an approved backflow prevention assembly.



2.   The customer shall immediately notify the City water utility when the
customer becomes aware that backflow has occurred in the building, property
or private water system receiving water service, and take measures to confine
the contamination or pollution by turning off valves to isolate the area of
the incident.  The City may order that a water service be temporarily shut
off when a backflow occurs in a customer’s building, property or private
water system. 



3.   The customer shall cause installation, operation, maintenance and
testing of the backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter.
Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed by a licensed plumbing
contractor per established plumbing codes. A licensed backflow prevention
testing technician, registered with the Iowa Department of Public Health,
shall test the backflow prevention assembly at initial installation and
annually each year thereafter. Backflow prevention assemblies installed on
irrigation systems shall be tested annually by May 31 of each year. Backflow
prevention assemblies must be retested when repairs have been completed to
ensure the repaired device is operational.



(Ord. 1808 – July 14 Supp.)



4.   The customer shall ensure the City water utility receives the
backflow prevention assembly test report upon completion of testing. 
Failure to provide report within 15 days of the test may result in
termination of water service.



93.06  BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTING.



1.   Backflow prevention assemblies which are in place, but have not been
used for more than three (3) months, shall be tested prior to being placed
back into service.



2.   Any backflow prevention assembly that fails a test and is repaired or
replaced, must successfully pass the test prior to being placed into
operation.



3.   The City may require more frequent testing of backflow prevention
assemblies.



4.   The City may conduct, at its own cost, additional testing of a
backflow prevention assembly to verify test procedures and results.



5.   To suspend the testing requirements for an irrigation system or other
system taken out of service, the customer shall have a licensed plumbing
contractor disconnect all piping and remove the backflow prevention
assembly.  When the system is to be placed back into service, the backflow
prevention assembly must be re-installed by a licensed plumbing contractor
and tested by the required licensed testing technician.  The customer must
contact the City water utility for an appointment to have the disconnection
and reconnection inspected.



93.07  TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE. 



Water service may be terminated in the case of noncompliance with, but not
limited to, the following.



1.   Refusal to allow City access to the property to inspect for cross
connection at reasonably scheduled times.



2.   Unauthorized removal or bypassing of a backflow prevention device
required by the City.



3.   Providing inadequate backflow prevention when a cross connection
exists.



4.   Failure to install an approved backflow prevention assembly when
required by the City.



5.   Failure to test a backflow prevention assembly as required by the
City and/or submit the required test report within 15 days of the test.



6.   Failure to comply with any other provisions of this chapter or
reasonable requests.



(Chapter 93 – Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



CHAPTER 94
CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJOR SANITARY SEWER AND WATER MAIN FACILITIES



 

94.01  Notice and Hearing
 
94.04  Connection Fee Due


94.02  Eligible Properties
 
94.05  Water Connection Districts Established


94.03  Application Required
 
94.06  Sewer Connection Districts Established



 



94.01  NOTICE AND HEARING. 



1.   In the event the Council determines the necessity of constructing a
major sanitary sewer facility or major water main facility, and determines
that the utilization of a connection fee is the most equitable manner in
which to recover the City’s costs associated therewith, the Council shall
cause a “Notice of Public Hearing on the Proposed Adoption of an Ordinance
to Establish a Benefited District and a Connection Fee” to be published in
a newspaper of general circulation within the City as hereinafter provided. 
In addition to indicating the date, time and place of the public hearing, the
notice shall:



   A.   Identify by general description the proposed benefited district
to be served by the major sanitary sewer facility or facilities, or major
water main facility or facilities; and



   B.   Set forth the proposed schedule of connection fees to be paid
by property owners within the benefited district who connect to said
facilities, expressed in dollars per acre of land area served or such other
method as the City shall determine to be equitable for the benefited district.



2.   The notice shall also state that the proposed connection fee
ordinance is on file, along with a plat of the area to be served, and both
are available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.  The
notice shall be published not more than 45 days and not less than 20 days
prior to the scheduled date of the public hearing, and shall be mailed to
each property owner within the benefited district as shown by the records of
the County Assessor.



3.   At the public hearing, the owners of property within the proposed
benefited district shall be heard and may offer comments or objections as to:



   A.   The calculation of the area benefited by the proposed major
sanitary sewer facilities or major water main facilities; and



   B.   The proposed connection fee.



4.   Upon concluding the hearing, the City Council shall rule upon the
objections presented during the hearing and may consider the adoption of the
proposed connection fee ordinance.  Upon consideration of the proposed
connection fee ordinance, the Council may:



   A.   Adopt the ordinance as proposed;



   B.   Delete elements or portions of the proposed major sanitary
sewer facilities and major water main facilities and the properties served
thereby from the benefited district proposed; or



   C.   Amend the ordinance to revise the connection fee.



94.02  ELIGIBLE PROPERTIES.



1.   The owners of parcels of less than one acre in size located within
the benefited district may connect such parcels to the sanitary sewer
facility or water main facility upon approval of their application for
connection, payment of the minimum connection fee, or the fee for one acre if
the connection fee is a per-acre fee for the parcel, and construction, at the
owner’s expense, of appropriate connection structures, as determined
necessary by the City.



2.   The owners of residences on parcels in excess of one acre in size
located within the benefited district may connect such residences to the
major sanitary sewer facility or major water main facility upon approval of
their application for connection and division of said parcel into a residence
parcel and a remainder parcel, payment of the connection fee for the
residence parcel and construction, at the owner’s expense, of appropriate
connection structures, as determined necessary by the City.  The connection
fee for the remainder parcel shall be payable at such time as the remainder
parcel shall be connected to the major sanitary sewer facility or major water
main facility.  For purposes of this section, a parcel may be divided
once.  For purposes of this section, division of the property into a
residence parcel and a remainder parcel may be accomplished by submitting a
drawing showing a graphical depiction of the two parcels including dimensions
accurate to within a distance of one foot, a legal description of the entire
parcel and a legal description of the residence parcel with such accuracy as
to allow the City to determine a reasonable description of the remainder
parcel.  For purposes of this section, the division of property does not
require a subdivision of the property or a plat of survey.



3.   No connection shall be made for the purpose of providing water or
sewer service to any property except direct connections to serve property
included within the benefited district.



4.   Sanitary sewer service or water service can be provided to parcels
and facilities owned by a political subdivision of the State of Iowa, in the
same manner and under the same procedures set forth in this section for
parcels less than one acre in size, described in subsection 1, above.



5.   All other property located within the benefited district shall be
eligible for connection to the sanitary sewer facility or water main facility
upon approval of an application for connection by the owner thereof, as
hereafter provided, and payment of the connection fee for such property,
provided such property has been appropriately subdivided for development,
and, where applicable, all sanitary sewer improvements and/or water main
improvements necessary to serve said property have been constructed, at the
owner’s expense, and accepted by the City.



6.   The owner of any parcel making a connection to water main or sanitary
sewer facilities, as authorized and permitted herein, shall be solely
responsible for the cost of making such connection.  Such connection shall
be designed and installed in complete accordance with all applicable City
ordinances, rules, and regulations.



94.03  APPLICATION REQUIRED.



1.   All owners of those properties within the benefited district whose
properties are eligible for connection and who propose to connect such
properties directly or indirectly to the sanitary sewer facility or water
main facility shall make application to the City for such connection.  No
connection shall be made to a major sanitary sewer facility or major water
main facility until such application has been approved and until the required
connection fee has been paid.



2.   The submittal of construction plans to the City for sanitary sewer
improvements and/or water main improvements on property being subdivided for
development shall constitute an application to the City for purposes of this
section.



3.   In addition to the application for connection and the required
connection fee, the owner of the parcel to be serviced by the connection that
is not within the corporate limits at that time shall file with the City an
Application for Annexation, said application to be in a form as provided by
the City and subsequently acted upon by the City Council.



4.   In the event any property owner connects his or her property within a
benefited district to a major sanitary sewer facility or major water main
facility without having made application therefor or without having received
approval thereof, or without having paid the required connection fee
established by a connection fee ordinance, the City shall be entitled to
disconnect such private sewer connection or private water connection until
such time as the property owner has made and received approval of the
application, and/or has paid the required connection fee.



94.04  CONNECTION FEE DUE.



1.   The sewer connection fee or water connection fee shall be due and
payable at the time application is made to the City for connection to the
major sanitary sewer facility or major water main facility.  The sewer
connection fee and/or water connection fee required by this section shall be
paid before the City will approve the final plan of property subject to the
connection fee.



2.   The sewer connection fee or water connection fee shall be in an
amount equal to the maximum acre area of contiguous property, or fraction
thereof, within the benefited district under common ownership which can be
lawfully served through such proposed connection, multiplied by the per acre
connection fee or such other fee basis as determined for the benefited
district established in the connection fee ordinance for that benefited
district.  The connection fee may be a graduated connection fee, with annual
interest adjustments, such that property owners who connect in later years
pay interest on the connection fee for their property.



3.   The sewer connection fees or water connection fees required by this
chapter shall be due and payable to the City.



4.   The sewer connection fees and/or water connection fees required by
this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu of, fees required in
Sections 90.06 and 96.02 of this Code of Ordinances.



5.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter by connecting to
a major sanitary sewer facility or major water main facility without having
complied with the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in
Section 1.14.



94.05  WATER CONNECTION DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED. 



The following water connection districts have been established and all
connection requirements provided in this chapter shall apply.



1.   Crosswinds Water Connection District 1. 



   A.   Crosswinds Water Connection District 1 means and includes only
the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Beginning at the SE corner of Section 7, Township 79 North, Range 23 West of
the 5th P.M. (Section 7-79-23); thence west along the south line of Section
7-79-23 to the east ROW line of Interstate Highway 35; thence northerly along
the east ROW line of Interstate Highway 35 to the north line of Section 6,
Township 79 North, Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 6-79-23); thence
east along the north line of Section 6-79-23 to the centerline of SE Four
Mile Drive; thence south along the centerline of SE Four Mile Drive to the NE
corner of Section 7-79-23; thence south along the east line of Section
7-79-23 to the point of beginning.



and:  EX S 1065.15F- W 757F S OF RR LESS RD SW 1/4 SEC 5-79-23 GEOPARCEL #
7923-05-300-001



and:  EX W 60F RD- BEG 1040.15F N OF SW COR THN E 1155F THN N TO PT 330F S
OF N LN THN W TO PT 1584F W OF E LN THN N TO S LN RR THN SWLY ALNG RR TO PT
757F E OF W LN & 1064.5F N OF S LN THN W 757F TO W LN THN S 25F TO POB SW 1/4
SEC 5-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-05-300-002



and:  PARCEL D S1039.5F W1155F SW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS 2.94A RD SEC 5-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-05-300-008



and:  1 SQUARE A NW COR NW 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS .458A RD SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL #
7923-08-100-001



and:  EX 1 SQUARE A NW COR & PARCEL F BK 8529 PG 964 BEG 884.67F E OF NW COR
THN E 435F S 545F W 435F N 545F TO POB & BEG 1314.2F N OF W 1/4 COR OF SEC
THN N 258F ALNG W LN E 100F S 258F W 100F TO POB- NW 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS 2.24A RD
SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-100-009



and:  PARCEL F N 545F E 435F NW 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS .44A RD SEC 8-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-100-008



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Crosswinds Water
Connection District 1 desiring to make a residential service connection shall
pay a connection fee in the amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee is in
lieu of, and not in addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04,
subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the Crosswinds Water Connection
District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is subdivided
for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional structures are
permitted thereon, the owner shall pay a connection fee in the amount of
$1,800.00 per acre, or $3,000.00, whichever is greater.



2.   Delaware Avenue.  No person shall be allowed to connect onto the
existing SE Delaware Avenue water main outside the City limits of the City,
except under the following conditions:



   A.   Only residential dwellings constructed and occupied in 1980
shall be allowed to hook onto said water line and the water provided to said
premises through said line shall be used solely for residential purposes.



   B.   In the event that any person who owns premises which qualify
under the preceding subsection desires to connect to the SE Delaware Avenue
water main, such person must first file an application with the City,
requesting such service.  Such application shall be accompanied by payment
of a hook-on fee in the amount of $2,500.00.



   C.   All of the water lines required to connect the existing
building to the City water system as well as the water meter shall be
installed in accordance with City rules and regulations governing such
installation and at the sole cost of the applicant.



3.   Eastside Rural Water Connection District 1.



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:



      (1)   “Eastside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I” means
the water main installed along SE Oralabor Road (County NE 78 th Avenue), NE
29 th Street, NE Berwick Drive and SE Magazine Road (County NE 86 th Avenue)
within the Eastside Rural Water Connection District 1.



      (2)   “Eastside Rural Water Connection District 1” means
and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Beginning at a point on the south line of Section 30, Township 80 North,
Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 30-80-23) that is 907.2 feet east of
the South ¼ Corner of said Section 30; thence northerly 355.09 feet; thence
westerly 153.05 feet to the SE Corner of Metro North II Plat 2, thence
northerly 285.21 feet along the east line of Lot 5 Metro North II Plat 2;
thence northerly 457.52 feet along the east line of Lot 4 Metro North II Plat
2; thence northerly 264.45 feet along the east line of Lot 3 Metro North II
Plat 2 to a point on the north line of the SW¼ SE¼ of Section 30-80-23; to
the NW Corner of the SE¼ SE¼ Section 30-80-23; thence east along the north
line of the west 30 acres of the SE¼ SE¼ Section 30-80-23 to the SW Corner
of the east 30 acres of the NE¼ SE¼ Section 30-80-23; thence north along
the west line of the east 30 acres of the NE¼ SE¼ Section 30-80-23 to the
NW Corner of the north 10 acres of the east 30 acres of the NE¼ SE¼ Section
30-80-23; thence west along the south line of the SE¼ NE¼ Section 30-80-23
to the SW Corner of the SE¼ NE¼ Section 30-80-23; thence north along the
west line of the SE¼ NE¼ Section 30-80-23 to the SE Corner of Lot 6
Mallorys Park, an Official Plat; thence west along the south line of Lots 6,
5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 Mallorys Park to the SW Corner of Lot 1 Mallorys Park;
thence north along the west line of Lot 1 Mallorys Park to the NW Corner of
Lot 1 Mallorys Park;



thence north 33 feet to the south line of Section 19, Township 80 North,
Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 19-80-23); thence west along the south
line of Section 19-80-23 to the SW Corner of the SE¼ Section 19-80-23;
thence north along the west line of the SE¼ Section 19-80-23 to the SE
Corner of the north 3 acres of the east 8 acres NE¼ SW Fractional ¼ Section
19-80-23; thence west along the south line of the north 3 acres of the east 8
acres NE¼ SW Fractional ¼ Section 19-80-23 to the SW Corner of said north 3
acres of the east 8 acres NE¼ SW Fractional ¼ Section 19-80-23; thence
north along the west line of the north 3 acres of the east 8 acres NE¼ SW
Fractional ¼ Section 19-80-23 to the NW Corner of said north 3 acres of the
east 8 acres NE¼ SW Fractional ¼ Section 19-80-23; thence east along the
north line of the north 3 acres of the east 8 acres NE¼ SW Fractional ¼
Section 19-80-23 to the NW Corner of the SE¼ Section 19-80-23; thence east
along the north line of the SE¼ Section 19-80-23 to the NE Corner of the W½
SE¼ Section 19-80-23; thence south along the east line of the W½ SE¼
Section 19-80-23 to the NW Corner of the SE¼ SE¼. Section 19-80-23; thence
east along the north line of the SE¼ SE¼ Section 19-80-23 to the NE Corner
of the SE¼ SE¼ of Section 19-80-23; thence south along the east line of
Section 19-80-23 to the NW Corner of the South 26 acres of the SW¼ SW¼
Section 20, Township 80 North, Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section
20-80-23);



thence east along the north line of the South 26 acres of the SW¼ SW¼
Section 20-80-23 to the NE Corner of the South 26 acres of the SW¼ SW¼
Section 20-80-23; thence south along the east line of the South 26 acres of
the SW¼ SW¼ Section 20-80-23 to the SE Corner of the SW¼ SW¼ Section 20,
Township 80 North, Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 20-80-23);



thence south along the east line of the NW¼ NW¼ Section 29-80-23 to the SE
Corner of the NW¼ NW¼ Section 29-80-23; thence east along the north line of
the SE¼ NW¼ Section 29-80-23 to the NW Corner of SW¼ NE¼ Section
29-80-23; thence east along the north line of the SW¼ NE¼ Section 29-80-23
to the NE Corner of the SW¼ NE¼ Section 29-80-23; thence south along the
east line of the SW¼ NE¼ Section 29-80-23 to the SE Corner of the SW¼ NE¼
Section 29-80-23; thence south along the east line of Lots 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and
7, J.A.D. Farms Plat 1, an Official Plat, and continuing south to the SE
Corner of the SW¼ SE¼ Section 29-80-23; thence south along the east line of
Lots 3 and 2, Four Mile Woods Plat 2, an Official Plat, to the SE Corner of
Lot 2, Four Mile Woods Plat 2; thence west along the south line of Lots 2 and
1, Four Mile Woods Plat 2, to the SW Corner of Lot 1, Four Mile Woods Plat 2;



thence west along the south line of the N½ NW¼ Section 32, Township 80
North, Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 32-80-23) to the SE Corner of
Lot 7, Oakland Timber Estates, an Official Plat, and continuing west along
the south line of said Lot 7, to the SW Corner of said Lot 7; and continuing
west along the south line of the N½ NW¼ Section 32-80-23 to the SW Corner
of the N½NW¼ Section 32-80-23, and continuing west along the south line of
N½NE¼ Section 31, Township 80 North, Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section
31-80-23) to the SE Corner of Lot 5 Metro North Air Park, an Official Plat;
thence north along the east line of Lots 5, 4 and 3, Metro North Air Park, an
Official Plat, to the south line of Section 30-80-23; thence east along the
south line of Section 30-80-23 to the point of beginning.



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Eastside Rural
Water District 1 desiring to make a residential service connection to the
Eastside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I shall pay a connection fee in the
amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee is in lieu of, and not in
addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the Eastside Rural Water
District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is subdivided
and additional structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of
the parcel shall be required to pay the fees for the right to make
connections to the Eastside Rural Water Main or extensions of mains connected
to the Eastside Rural Water Main as necessary for their development.  The
fee will be paid prior to the connection, in the case of service connections
to industrial or commercial buildings, or prior to City approval of
construction contracts for a water main extension to serve a subdivision. 
The fees are determined in three components:  cost per platted lot, cost per
frontage foot on the Eastside Rural Water Main, and cost per square foot
within the subdivision.  The fees for each component are as follows and the
total fee will be the sum of the components, or $3,000.00, whichever is
greater:



      Cost per platted lot   $   1,275.00



      Cost per frontage foot   $   3.60



      Cost per square foot   $   0.003



   D.   In the event any parcel within the Eastside Rural Water
District 1 is developed for urban residential use and additional structures
are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall be required
to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the Eastside Rural water
main or extensions of mains connected to the Eastside Rural Water Main as
necessary their development.  The fee will be paid prior to the connection,
prior to final plat approval by the City, or prior to City approval of
construction contracts for a water main extension to serve a subdivision. 
The connection fee for urban residential development is $1,800.00 per acre
within the plat boundary.



   E.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the Eastside Rural
Water Main Extension Phase I for the purpose of providing water service to
property other than established parcels included in the Eastside Rural Water
Connection District 1.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or
not the Eastside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I is hereafter further
extended, no direct service connections shall be made to that portion of the
Eastside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I defined hereunder as the Eastside
Rural Water Main Extension Phase I except as provided for hereunder.



4.   Northside Rural Water Connection District 1. 



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:



      (1)   “Northside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I” means
the water main installed along NE Delaware Avenue (County NE 22 nd Street),
NE 54 th Street (County NE 118 th Avenue), and NW Ash Drive (County NE 6 th
Street) within the Northside Rural Water Connection District 1.



      (2)   “Northside Rural Water Connection District 1” means
and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Beginning at a point on the west ROW line of NW Ash Drive that is 556.97 feet
north of the NE Corner of Ashland Meadows Plat 2, an Official Plat; thence
west 816.2 feet to a point; thence south 496.96 feet to a point; thence east
185 feet to a point; thence south 60 feet to a point on the north line of Lot
20 Ashland Meadows Plat 5, an Official Plat; thence west along the north line
of Lot 20 Ashland Meadows Plat 5 to the NW Corner of Lot 20 Ashland Meadows
Plat 5; thence west along the north line of Lots 7, 6, 5 and 4 of Ashland
Meadows Plat 6, an Official Plat, to the SE Corner of the W½ NW¼ of Section
11, Township 80 North, Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 11-80-24);
thence north along the cast line of the W½ NW¼ Section 11-80-24 to the NE
Corner of the W½ NW¼ Section 11-80-24;



thence east alone the south line of Section 2, Township 80 North, Range 24
West of the 5th P.M. (Section 2-80-24) to the SW Corner of the east 35 acres
of the SE¼ SW¼ Section 2-80-24; thence north along the west line of the
east 35 acres of the SE¼ SW¼ Section 2-80-24 to the NW Corner of the east
35 acres of the SE¼ SW¼ Section 2-80-24; thence west along the south line
of the N½ SW¼ Section 2-80-24 to the SW Corner of the N½ SW¼ Section
2-80-24; thence north along the west line of the N½ SW¼ Section 2-80-24 to
the NW Corner of the N½ SW¼ Section 2-80-24; thence east along the north
line of the N½ SW¼ Section 2-80-24 to the SW Corner of the SE¼ NW
Fractional ¼ Section 2-80-24; thence north along the west line of the SE¼
NW Fractional ¼ Section 2-80-24 to the NW Corner of the SE¼ NW Fractional
¼ Section 2-80-24; thence west along the south line of the N½ NW Fractional
¼ Section 2-80-24 to the SW Corner of the N½ NW Fractional ¼ Section
2-80-24;



thence south along the east line of the E½ NE Fractional ¼ of Section 3,
Township 80 North, Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 3-80-24) to the SE
Corner of the E½ NE Fractional ¼ Section 3-80-24; thence west along the
south line of the NE Fractional ¼ Section 3-80-24 to the SW Corner of the
W½ NE Fractional ¼ Section 3-80-24; thence north along the west line of the
W½ NE Fractional ¼ Section 3-80-24 to the NW Corner of the W½ NE
Fractional ¼ Section 3-80-24;



thence north along the west line of the W½ SE¼ of Section 34, Township 81
North, Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 34-81-24) to the NW Corner of
the W½ SE¼ Section 34-81-24; thence east along the north line of the SE ¼
Section 34-81-24 to the NE corner of the SE¼ Section 34-81-24;



thence east along the north line of the S½ of Section 35, Township 81 North,
Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 35-81-24) to the NE Corner of the S½
Section 35-81-24;



thence south along the west line of the Section 36, Township 81 North, Range
24 West of the 5th P. M. (Section 36-81-24) to the SW Corner of the NW¼ SW¼
and the west 6 acres of Section 36-81-24; thence cast along the south line of
the NW¼ SW¼ and the west 6 acres of the NE¼ SW¼ of Section 36-81-24 to
the SE Corner of the NW¼ SW¼ and the west 6 acres of the NE¼ SW¼ of
Section 36-81-24; thence north along the east line of the NW¼ SW¼ and the
west 6 acres of the NE¼ SW¼ of Section 36-81-24 to the NE Corner of the
NW¼ SW¼ and the west 6 acres of the NE¼ SW¼ of Section 36-81-24; thence
east along the north line of the east 68 acres of the E½ SW¼ of Section
36-81-24 to the NE Corner of the east 68 acres of the E½ SW¼ of Section
36-81-24; thence south along the east line of the east 68 acres of the E½
SW¼ of Section 36-81-24 to the SW Corner of the N½ SE¼ of Section
36-81-24; thence east along the south line of the N½ SE¼ of Section
36-81-24 to the SE Corner of the N½ SE¼ of Section 36-81- 24;



thence south along the west line of Section 31, Township 81 North, Range 23
West of the 5th P. M. (Section 31-81-23) to the SW Corner of the S¾ SW
Fractional ¼ of Section 31-81-23; thence cast along the south line of the
S¾ SW Fractional ¼ of Section 31-81-23 to the west ROW line of Interstate
Highway 35; thence south along the west ROW line of Interstate Highway 35 to
a point on the south line of Section 31-81-23;



thence continuing south along the west ROW line of Interstate Highway 35 to a
point on the south line of the NW Fractional ¼ of Section 6, Township 80
North, Range 23 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 6-80-23); thence west along the
south line of the NW Fractional ¼ Section 6-80-23 to the SW Corner of the NW
Fractional ¼ Section 6-80-23;



thence north along the cast line of Section 1, Township 80 North, Range 24
West of the 5th P.M. (Section 1-80-24) to a point located 1641.57 feet south
of the NE Corner of the NE Fractional ¼ of Section 1-80-24; thence westerly
1102.40 feet along the centerline of the Iowa Electric Power and Light
electric transmission line easement to a point on the north line of the
Creekside PUD, an official Planned Unit Development; thence westerly 800.54
feet along the easement centerline to a point on the north line of the
Creekside PUD; thence westerly 205.80 feet along the easement centerline to
the NW Corner of the Creekside PUD, thence southeasterly 47.35 feet to a
point of the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence southerly 100.29 feet to
a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence southerly 157.26 feet
to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence southerly 52.47 feet
to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence southerly 50.00 feet
to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence southerly 95.29 feet
to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence southwesterly 44.13
feet to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence northwesterly
88.91 feet to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD; thence
southwesterly 67.10 feet to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD;
thence southerly 56.80 feet to a point on the east line of the Creekside PUD;
thence southerly 50.00 feet to a point on the west line of the Creekside PUD;
thence southwesterly 44.98 feet to a point on the west line of the Creekside
PUD; thence northwesterly 110.25 feet to a point on the west line of the
Creekside PUD; thence southerly 25.54 feet to a point on the west line of the
Creekside PUD; thence southerly 70.60 feet to a point on the west line of the
Creekside PUD; thence southwesterly 37.47 feet to a point on the west line of
the Creekside PUD; thence southerly 68.88 feet to a point on the west line of
the Creekside PUD; thence northwesterly 137.36 feet to a point on the west
line of the Creekside PUD; thence southwesterly 45.01 feet to a point on the
west line of the Creekside PUD;



thence northerly 119.73 feet to a point on the east line of the Avondale
Trace PUD, an official Planned Unit Development; thence northwesterly 19.87
feet to a point on the east line of the Avondale Trace PUD; thence
northwesterly 25.90 feet to a point on the east line of the Avondale Trace
PUD; thence southwesterly 99.18 feet to a point on the east line of the
Avondale Trace PUD; thence southwesterly 110.00 feet to a point on the east
line of the Avondale Trace PUD; thence southwesterly 65.00 feet to a point on
the east line of the Avondale Trace PUD; thence northwesterly 235.00 feet to
a point on the east line of the Avondale Trace IPUD; thence northwesterly
334.94 feet to the northeasterly Corner of the Avondale Trace PUD; thence
westerly 2025.00 feet along the north line of the Avondale Trace to the NW
Corner of the Avondale Trace PUD;



thence continuing along said line westerly 60 feet to the east line of
Section 2, Township 80 North, Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section
2-80-24); thence north along the east line of Section 2-80-24 to the NE
Corner of the N 562.5 feet of the S 1125 feet of the E 1960 feet of the N½
NE Fractional ¼ of Section 2-80-24; thence west 1960 feet along the north
line of the N 562.5 feet of the S 1125 feet of the E 1960 feet of the N½ NE
Fractional ¼ of Section 2-80-24 to the NW Corner of the N 562.5 feet of the
S 1125 feet of the E 1960 feet of the N½ NE Fractional ¼ of Section
2-80-24; thence south 562.5 feet along the west line of the N 562.5 feet of
the S 1125 feet of the E 1960 feet of the N½ NE Fractional ¼ of Section
2-80-24 to the SW Corner of the N 562.5 feet of the S 1125 feet of the E 1960
feet of the N½ NE Fractional ¼ of Section 2-80-24; thence south 562.5 feet
along the west line of the E1960 feet of the S 562.5 feet of the N½ NE
Fractional ¼ Section 2-80-24 to the SW Corner of the E 1960 feet of the S
562.5 feet of the N½ NE Fractional ¼ Section 2-80-24; thence east 1960 feet
along the south line of the E 1960 feet of the S 562.5 feet of the N½ NE
Fractional ¼ Section 2-80-24 to the SE Corner of the E 1960 feet of the S
562.5 feet of the N½ NE Fractional ¼ Section 2-80-24; thence south along
the east line of Section 2-80-24 to the SE Corner of the S½ NE Fractional ¼
Section 2-80-24; thence south along the east line of Section 2-80-24 to the
NE Corner of the E 1597.2 feet of the S 600 feet of the N½ SE¼ Section
2-80-24; thence west 1597.2 feet along the north line of the E 1597.2 feet of
the S 600 feet of the N½ SE¼ Section 2-80-24 to the NW Corner of the E
1597.2 feet of the S 600 feet of the N½ SE¼ Section 2-80- 24; thence south
600 feet along the west line of the E 1597.2 feet of the S 600 feet of the
N½ SE¼ Section 2-80-24 to the SW Corner of the E 1597.2 feet of the S 600
feet of the N½ SE¼ Section 2-80-24; thence east 427.2 feet along the south
line of the E 1597.2 feet of the S 600 feet of the N½ SE¼ Section 2-80-24
to a point; thence southeasterly 375.88 feet to a point; thence southeasterly
418.42 feet to a point; thence easterly 345.00 feet to a point on the east
line of the S½ SE¼ Section 2-80-24; thence south 970.45 feet along the east
line of Section 2-80-24 to the SE Corner of Section 2-80-24;



thence south along the east line of the N 140 acres of the NE¼ of Section
11, Township 80 North, Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 11-8,0-24) to
the SE Corner of the N 140 acres of the NE¼ of Section 11-80-24; thence west
along the south line of the N 140 acres of the NE¼ of Section 11-80-24 to
the SW Corner of the N 140 acres of the NE¼ of Section 11-80-24; thence
continuing west to a point on the west ROW line of NW Ash Drive; thence north
along the west ROW line of NW Ash Drive to the Point of Beginning.



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Northside Rural
Water District 1 desiring to make a residential service connection to the
Northside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I shall make application therefor
to the City, and at the time of making application, shall pay a connection
fee in the amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee is in lieu of, and not
in addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the Northside Rural Water
District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is subdivided
for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional structures are
permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall be required to
pay the fees for the right to make connections to the Northside Rural Water
Main or extensions of mains connected to the Northside Rural Water Main as
necessary for their development.  The fee will be paid prior to the
connection, in the case of service connections to industrial or commercial
buildings, or prior to City approval of construction contracts for a water
main extension to serve a subdivision.  The fees are determined in two
components:  cost per frontage foot on the Northside Rural Water Main, or
cost per acre within the subdivision.  The costs for each component are as
follows and the total connection fee will be the least of the two components,
or $3,000.00, whichever is greater:



      Cost per frontage foot   $   60.00



      Cost per acre   $   1,400.00



   D.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the Northside Rural
Water Main Extension Phase I for the purpose of providing water service to
property other than established parcels included in the Northside Rural Water
Connection District 1.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or
not the Northside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I is hereafter further
extended, no direct service connections shall be made to that portion of the
Northside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I defined hereunder as the
Northside Rural Water Main Extension Phase I except as provided for hereunder.



5.   Northwest 18th Street Water Connection District 1. 



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:



      (1)     “NW 18 th Street Water Main Phase 1” means the
water main installed along NW 18 th Street between the abandoned Railroad ROW
and NW State Street.



      (2)     “NW 18 th Street Water Connection District 1”
means and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Beginning at a point being the SE Corner of Section 10, Township 80 North,
Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 10-80-24) thence north along the east
line Section 10-80-24 to the NE Corner of the SE¼ Section 10-80-24; thence
west along the north line of the SE¼ Section 10-80-24 to NW Corner of the
SE¼ Section 10-80-24; thence south along the west line of the SE¼ Section
10-80-24 to the NE Corner of the S½ SW¼ and the south 3 acres of the N½
SW¼ Section 10-80-24; thence west along the north line of the S½ SW¼ and
the south 3 acres of the N½ SW¼ Section 10-80-24 to a point on the east ROW
line of NW Irvinedale Road; thence south along the east ROW line of NW
Irvinedale Road to a point on the north ROW line of the abandoned Union
Pacific Railroad; thence southeasterly along the north ROW line of the
abandoned Union Pacific Railroad to a point on the south line of Section
10-80-24; thence east along the south section line of Section 10-80-24 to the
point of beginning.



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the NW 18th Street
Water Connection District 1 to make a residential service connection to the
NW 18th Street Water Main Phase I shall make application therefor to the
City, and at the time of making application, shall pay a connection fee in
the amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee is in lieu of, and not in
addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the NW 18th Street Water
Connection District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the NW 18th
Street Water Main Phase I or extensions of mains connected to the NW 18th
Street Water Main Phase I as necessary for their development.  The fee will
be paid prior to the connection, in the case of service connections to
industrial or commercial buildings, or prior to City approval of construction
contracts for a water main extension to serve a subdivision.  The fees are
determined in two components:  cost per frontage foot on the NW 18th Street
Water Main Phase I, or cost per acre within the subdivision.  The costs for
each component are as follows and the total connection fee will be the least
of the two components, or $3,000.00, whichever is greater:



      Cost per frontage foot   $   65.00



      Cost per platted acre   $   1,000.00



   D.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the NW 18th Street
Water Main Phase I for the purpose of providing water service to property
other than established parcels included in the NW 18th Street Water
Connection District 1.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or
not the NW 18th Street Water Main Phase I is hereafter further extended, no
direct service connections shall be made to that portion of the NW 18th
Street Water Main Phase I except as provided for hereunder.



6.   Northwest Weigel Drive Water Connection District 1.



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:



      (1)   “Northwest Weigel Drive Water Main” means the water
main installed along Northwest Weigel Drive between north of Northwest 5 th
Street and Northwest 18 th Street.



      (2)   “Northwest Weigel Drive Water Connection District 1”
means and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



-EX BEG NE CORNER W½ NW¼ SEC 16 THN S 1570.96F W 40.01F N 1496.1F NWLY
39.53F W 1249.4F N 50F E 1314.69F TO POB ROAD & ROAD EASM- & -EX E 433F S
1089F- W½ NW¼ SEC 16-80-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-16-100-007)



and



E 433F S 1089F W½ NW¼ LESS 1A RD SEC 16-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #8024-16-100-008)



and



OUTLOT Z WATERCREST PLAT 4 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-16-301-006)



   B.   No connection shall be made to the Northwest Weigel Drive Water
Main for the purpose of providing water service to any property except direct
connections to serve property included within the Northwest Weigel Drive
Water Connection District 1 and then, only on the conditions set forth in
subsection C below.



   C.   The right to make connections to the Northwest Weigel Drive
Water Main from parcels included within the Northwest Weigel Drive Water
Connection District 1 shall be subject to the following conditions:



      (1)   No connection shall be permitted other than a direct
connection to serve a residential structure located on an established parcel
within the Northwest Weigel Drive Water Connection District 1, except as
provided in paragraph D below.



      (2)   The owner of any parcel included within the Northwest
Weigel Drive Water Connection District 1 desiring to make a residential
service connection to the Northwest Weigel Drive Water Main shall make
application therefor to the City and, at the time of making application,
shall pay a connection fee in the amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee
is in lieu of, and not in addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04,
subsections 1 through 4.



      (3)   The owner of any parcel within the Northwest Weigel
Drive Water Connection District 1 making a connection to the Northwest Weigel
Drive Water Main, as authorized and permitted hereunder, shall be solely
responsible for the cost of making such connection, all as provided for in
Section 90.12.  Such connection shall be designed and installed in complete
accordance with all applicable City ordinances, rules, and regulations.



   D.   In the event any parcel within the Northwest Weigel Drive Water
Connection District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial, or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the
Northwest Weigel Drive Water Main or extensions of mains connected to the
Northwest Weigel Drive Water Main as is necessary for their development. 
The fee will be paid prior to the connection, in the case of service
connections to industrial or commercial buildings, or prior to City approval
of construction contracts for a water main extension to serve a
subdivision.  The fees are determined in two components:  cost per frontage
foot on the Northwest Weigel Drive Water Main, or cost per acre within the
subdivision plat.  The cost for each component is as follows, and the total
connection fee will be the least of the two components, or $3,000.00,
whichever is greater:



 




Effective Date

 

Connection Fee (per acre)

 

Connection Fee (per front foot)




Prior to and through December 31, 2008

 

$2,104.00

 

$59.50




January 1, 2009

 

$2,188.20

 

$61.90




January 1, 2010

 

$2,272.40

 

$64.30




January 1, 2011

 

$2,356.60

 

$66.70




January 1, 2012

 

$2,440.80

 

$69.10




January 1, 2013

 

$2,525.00

 

$71.50




January 1, 2014

 

$2,609.20

 

$73.90




January 1, 2015

 

$2,693.40

 

$76.30




January 1, 2016

 

$2,777.60

 

$78.70




January 1, 2017 and thereafter

 

$2,861.80

 

$81.10





 



   Such connection fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section
94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   E.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the Northwest Weigel
Drive Water Main for the purpose of providing water service to property other
than established parcels included in the Northwest Weigel Drive Water
Connection District 1.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or
not the Northwest Weigel Drive Water Main is hereafter further extended, no
direct service connections shall be made to that portion of the Northwest
Weigel Drive Water Main defined hereunder as the Northwest Weigel Drive Water
Main except as provided for hereunder.



7.   Northwest 18 th Street Water Connection District 2.



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:



      (1)   “Northwest 18 th Street Water Main Phase 2” means
the water main installed along Northwest 18 th Street between Northwest
Irvinedale Drive and Northwest Weigel Drive.



      (2)   “Northwest 18 th Street Water Connection District 2”
means and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



PARCEL A BK 11144 PG 750 CORR AFF BK 11555 PG 364 BEG SE COR THN W1976.35F N
50F NELY 39.27F N 25F NWLY 176.54F W 138.07F N 156.65F NE 185.85F NE 225.54F
N 1069.69F TO S ROW LN ABND UP RR SE 1965.1F TO E LN OF SEC S 1178.94F TO POB
SE¼ LESS 1.28A RD EAS & 2.44A RD SEC 9-80-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-09-400-008)



and



-EX S 60F W 356.48F- & -EX PARCEL A BK 11144 PG 750 CORR AFF BK 11555 PG 364
BEG SE COR THN W 1976.35F N 50F NELY 39.27F N 25F NWLY 176.54F W 138.07F N
156.65F NE 185.85F NE 225.54F N 1069.69F TO S ROW LN ABND UP RR SE 1965.1F TO
E LN OF SEC S 1178.94F TO POB-SE¼ LYG S OF ABND UP RR ROW LESS RD SEC
9-80-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-09-400-006)



and



-EX S 50F RD- BEG 405F W OF SE COR THN W 249F N 488.1F E 249F S 487.74F TO
POB S½ SW¼ SEC 9-80-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-09-300-012)



and



-EX S 50F W 658F & S 60F E 405.52F- & -EX BEG 405F W OF SE COR THN W 249F N
488.1F E 249F S 487.74F TO POB- & -EX BEG 50F N OF SW CORNER SE¼ SW¼ SEC 9
THN 1270.34F TO NW CORNER SE¼ SW¼ E 40F S 1245.29F SE 39.37F W 65.1F TO POB
LESS EXISTING ROAD EASM- SE¼ SW¼ LESS RD SEC 9-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8024-09-300-014)



and



-EX N 50F W 1000F & N 70F E 312.52F- NE¼ NW¼ LESS RD SEC 16-80-24
(GEOPARCEL # 8024-16-100-003)



and



-EX N 70F & HIDDEN CREEK PLT 3- NW¼ NE¼ SEC 16-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8024-16-201-002)



and



-EX BEG NW COR THN E 429.21F S 33F W 211.95F WLY ALNG CRV 282.83F THN N
68.02F TO POB- & -EX PARCEL Q BK 10493 PG 562 & HIDDEN CREEK PLTS 2 & 3- NE¼
NE¼ SEC 16-80-24 (GEOPARCEL 8024-16-226-018)



and



-EX BEG NE COR TUN W 522.74F S 33F E 428.47F SELY ALNG CRV 94.78F TO E LN THN
N 43.47F TO POB- PARCEL Q BK 10493 PG 562 NE¼ NE¼ SEC 16-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8024-16-226-017)



   B.   No connection shall be made to the Northwest 18 th Street Water
Main Phase 2 for the purpose of providing water service to any property
except direct connections to serve property included within the Northwest 18
th Street Water Connection District 2, and then, only on the conditions set
forth in subsection C below.



   C.   The right to make connections to the Northwest 18 th Street
Water Main Phase 2 from parcels included within the Northwest 18 th Street
Water Connection District 2 shall be subject to the following conditions:



      (1)   No connection shall be permitted other than a direct
connection to serve a residential structure located on an established parcel
within the Northwest 18 th Street Water Connection District 2 except as
provided in subsection D below.



      (2)   The owner of any parcel included within the Northwest 18
th Street Water Connection District 2 desiring to make a residential service
connection to the Northwest 18 th Street Water Main Phase 2 shall make
application therefor to the City and, at the time of making application,
shall pay a connection fee in the amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee
is in lieu of, and not in addition to, the fee set forth in Section 94.04,
subsections 1 through 4.



      (3)   The owner of any parcel within the Northwest 18 th
Street Water Connection District 2 making a connection to the Northwest 18 th
Street Water Main Phase 2, as authorized and permitted hereunder, shall be
solely responsible for the cost of making such connection, all as provided
for in Section 90.12.  Such connection shall be designed and installed in
complete accordance with all applicable City ordinances, rules, and
regulations.



   D.   In the event any parcel within the Northwest 18 th Street Water
Connection District 2 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial, or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the
Northwest 18 th Street Water Main Phase 2 or extensions of mains connected to
the Northwest 18 th Street Water Main Phase 2 as is necessary for their
development.  The fee will be paid prior to the connection, in the case of
service connections to industrial or commercial buildings, or prior to City
approval of construction contracts for a water main extension to serve a
subdivision.  The fees are determined in two components: cost per frontage
foot on the Northwest 18 th Street Water Main Phase 2, or cost per acre
within the subdivision plat.  The cost for each component is as follows and
the total connection fee will be the least of the two components, or
$3,000.00, whichever is greater:



 




Effective Date

 

Connection Fee (per acre)

 

Connection Fee (per front foot)




Prior to and through December 31, 2008

 

$1,305.00

 

$30.00




January 1, 2009

 

$1,357.20

 

$31.20




January 1, 2010

 

$1,409.40

 

$32.40




January 1, 2011

 

$1,461.60

 

$33.60




January 1, 2012

 

$1,513.80

 

$34.80




January 1, 2013

 

$1,566.00

 

$36.00




January 1, 2014

 

$1,618.20

 

$37.20




January 1, 2015

 

$1,670.40

 

$38.40




January 1, 2016

 

$1,722.60

 

$39.60




January 1, 2017 and thereafter

 

$1,774.80

 

$40.80





 



   Such connection fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section
94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   E.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the Northwest 18 th
Street Water Main Phase 2 for the purpose of providing water service to
property other than established parcels included in the Northwest 18 th
Street Water Connection District 2.  It is the intent of this section that,
whether or not the Northwest 18 th Street Water Main Phase 2 is hereafter
further extended, no direct service connections shall be made to that portion
of the Northwest 18 th Street Water Main Phase 2 defined hereunder as the
Northwest 18 th   Street Water Main Phase 2 except as provided for hereunder.



8.   Eastside Rural Water Connection District 2.



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:



      (1)   “Eastside Rural Water Main Phase 2” means the water
main installed along SE Creekview Drive, E. First Street, NE Frisk Drive, and
NE 18 th Street (NE 102 nd Avenue).



      (2)   “Eastside Rural Water Connection District 2” means
and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



-EX BEG SW COR THN N 767.2F E 70F S 195F W10F S578.44F W60.32F TO POB- W 200F
S 334.4F SW FRL 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-80-23 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-300-004)



and: E 160F W 360F S 770F LESS 1.60 A RD SEC 7-80-23 (GEOPARCEL #
8023-07-300-005)



and: BEG 360F E SW COR THN N 285F E 150F S 185F W 20F S 100F W 130F TO BEG SW
FRL 1/4 SW FRL 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-80-23 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-300-006)



and: -EX PARCEL D BEG 2200.87F E & 85F S OF NW COR THN E 120.22F SELY 541.55F
SW 32.74F W 260.51F N 552.5F TO POB- NE 1/4 NW FRL 1/4 LYG NLY OF CREEKVIEW
GOLF PLT 1 & E OF SE CREEKVIEW DR LESS RD SEC 19-80-23 (GEOPARCEL #
8023-19-128-001)



and: -EX BEG 1961.8F E & 75F N OF SW COR SEC 18 THN W 289.3F NW162.3F N91.2F
SELY 223.5F E270.5F S40F TO POB- W 650F SE 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS .75A RD SEC
18-80-23 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-376-001)



and: -EX W 650F- SE 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS 2.203 A RD SEC 18-80-23 (GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-377-001)



and: S 418.85F W520F OUTLOT X GREENWOOD ACRES PLT NO 6 (GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-452-002)



and: OUTLOT Y GREENWOOD ACRES PLAT NO. 7 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-452-019)



and: N 75A MEAS ON LN PAR TO N LN NE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 18-80-23 (GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-200-007)



and: E 1/2 NW 1/4 LYG E OF NE FRISK DR & -EX N 75A PAR TO N LN & DEER CREEK
ESTATES PLAT 1- N 1950.35F NE 1/4 SEC 18-80-23 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-200-009)



and: -EX N 1950.35- LYG E OF DEER CREEK ESTATES PLAT 1 NE 1/4 SEC 18-80-23
(GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-200-011)



and: -EX DEER CREEK ESTATES PLAT 1- BEG 2199F N OF S 1/4 COR THN E 300F SE
190.5F NELY 889.3F ELY 1471.3F TO E LN N 269.35F W2636F S 437.75F TO POB SE
1/4 SEC 18-80-23 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-426-012)



and: PARCEL C BEG CNT OF SEC THN N 695.45F E 329.3F S 694.65F TO S LN W
329.5F TO POB W1/2 W1/2 SW1/4 NE1/4 LESS .667A RD SEC 18-80-23 (GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-200-005)



and: -EX N 1950.35 & PARCEL C BOOK 10528 PAGE 961 BEG CNT OF SEC THN N
695.45F E 329.3F S 694.65F TO S LN W 329.5F TO POB- LYG N & W OF DEER CREEK
ESTATES PLT 1 NE 1/4 SEC 18-80-23 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-200-010)



and: LOT 26 DEER CREEK ESTATES PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-401-014)



   B.   No connection shall be made to the Eastside Rural Water Main
Phase 2 for the purpose of providing water service to any property except
direct connections to serve property included within the Eastside Rural Water
Connection District 2 and then, only on the conditions set forth in
subsection C below.



   C.   The right to make connections to the Eastside Rural Water Main
Phase 2 from parcels included within the Eastside Rural Water Connection
District 2 shall be subject to the following conditions:



      (1)   No connection shall be permitted other than a direct
connection to serve a residential structure located on an established parcel
within the Eastside Rural Water Connection District 2, except as provided in
subsection D below.



      (2)   The owner of any parcel included within the Eastside
Rural Water Connection District 2 desiring to make a residential service
connection to the Eastside Rural Water Main Phase 2 shall make application
therefor to the City and, at the time of making application, shall pay a
connection fee in the amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee is in lieu
of, and not in addition to, the fee set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1
through 4.



      (3)   The owner of any parcel within the Eastside Rural Water
Connection District 2 making a connection to the Eastside Rural Water Main
Phase 2, as authorized and permitted hereunder, shall be solely responsible
for the cost of making such connection, all as provided for in Section
90.12.  Such connection shall be designed and installed in complete
accordance with all applicable City ordinances, rules and regulations.



   D.   In the event any parcel within the Eastside Rural Water
Connection District 2 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the Eastside
Rural Water Main Phase 2 or extensions of mains connected to the Eastside
Rural Water Main Phase 2 as is necessary for their development.  The fee
will be paid prior to the connection, in the case of service connections to
industrial or commercial buildings, or prior to city approval of construction
contracts for a water main extension to serve a subdivision.  The fees are
determined in two components: cost per frontage foot on the Eastside Rural
Water Main Phase 2, or cost per acre within the subdivision plat.  The cost
for each component is as follows and the total connection fee will be the
least of the two components, or $3,000.00, whichever is greater:



 




Effective Date

 

Connection Fee (per acre)

 

Connection Fee (per front foot)




Prior to and through December 31, 2008

 

$3,440.00

 

$88.50




January 1, 2009

 

$3,577.60

 

$92.04




January 1, 2010

 

$3,630.80

 

$93.36




January 1, 2011

 

$3,684.00

 

$94.68




January 1, 2012

 

$3,737.20

 

$96.00




January 1, 2013

 

$3,790.40

 

$97.32




January 1, 2014

 

$3,843.60

 

$98.64




January 1, 2015

 

$3,896.80

 

$99.96




January 1, 2016

 

$3,950.00

 

$101.28




January 1, 2017 and thereafter

 

$4,003.20

 

$102.60





 



   Such connection fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section
94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   E.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the Eastside Rural
Water Main Phase 2 for the purpose of providing water service to property
other than established parcels included in the Eastside Rural Water
Connection District 2.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or
not the Eastside Rural Water Main Phase 2 is hereafter further extended, no
direct service connections shall be made to that portion of the water main
defined hereunder as the Eastside Rural Water Main Phase 2 except as provided
for hereunder.



(Ord. 1618 – Oct. 08 Supp.)



9.   SE Four Mile Drive Water Connection District 1. 



   A.   SE Four Mile Drive Water Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



S 285F N 498.54F E 315F & -EX PARCEL D BK 7272 PG 963 & PARCEL E BK 7272 PG
964 & BEG 540.15F W OF SE COR OF SEC THN W 249.25F N 1021.02F E 249.9F S
1021.07F TO POB- PARCEL C BK 7277 PG 908 & PARCEL O BK 10289 PG 392 BEG
1534.44F S & 315F W OF E ¼ COR OF SEC THN S86.76F W236.29F N86.76F E 237.25F
TO POB SE ¼ LESS RD SEC 31-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-31-400-031



and: PARCEL D BEG 631.9F N OF SE COR THN W 255F N 170.8F E 255F S 170.8F TO
POB SE ¼ LESS .26A RD EAS SEC 31-80-23 GEOPARCEL 3 8023-31-400-007



and: LT 1 SPREITZER PROPERTY PLAT 1 GEOPARCEL # 8023-31-400-032



and: -EX BEG 521.19F S & 145.67F W OF NE COR THN SW 169.24F N 119.83F E
118.33F TO POB- N 538F S 800.03F E 264F NE ¼ SE ¼ LESS .741A RD EAS SEC
31-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-31-400-021



and: W 60A S ½ NW ¼ LESS 1.82A RD SEC 32-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-32-151-001



and: -EX S 235F N 1156F E400F W 460F- & -EX BEG 1156F S OF NW COR THN E 460F
N 51F E 388.84F NE97.51F E158F S453.16F W1074.58F N 330.3F TO POB- N45A W½
SW¼ & W 275F N1650F E ½ SW ¼ LESS RD SEC 32-90-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-32-300-001



and: S 235F N 1156F E 400F W 460F N 45A W ½ SW ¼ SEC 32-80-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-32-300-002



and: BEG 1156F S OF NW COR THN E 460F N51F E388.84F NE 97.51F E158F S453.16F
W1074.58F N330.3F TO POB SW ¼ LESS RD SEC 32-80-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-32-300-003



and: S 35A W ½ SW ¼ & S ½ NW ¼ SE ¼ SW ¼ LESS RD EASM SEC 32-80-23
GEOPARCEL # 8023-32-300-004



and: BEG 77.01F S OF NE COR THN W 46.29F SE 150.87F SE 53.76F N 181.09F TO
POB N ½ NE FRL ¼ SEC 6-79-23; AND –EX BEG NE COR THN S 784.61F W TO E ROW
LN NE 29TH ST NLY ALG ROW TO N LN E TO POB- N ½ NE FRL ¼ LYG E OF NE 29TH
ST SEC 6-79-23; AND –EX RD EAS- & -EX BEG 258.1F S OF NW COR THN SE 227.37F
S 119.99F W TO W LN N TO POB- N 780F NW FRL ¼ NW FRL ¼ & -EX 10A NE COR & S
20.65A E 35.65A- N 780F NE FRL ¼ NW FRL ¼ SEC 5-79-23 GEOPARCEL #
7923-05-101-004



BEG 258.1F S OF NE COR THN NW 53.76F SELY 284.1F E TO E LN N TO POB NE FRL ¼
SEC 6-79-23; AND BEG 258.1F S OF NW COR THN SE 227.37F S 119.99F W TO W LN N
TO POB N ½ NW FRL ¼ SEC 5-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-05-101-001



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the SE Four Mile Drive
Water Connection District 1 desiring to make a residential service connection
to the SE Four Mile Drive Water Main shall pay a connection fee in the amount
of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such fee is in lieu of, and not in addition to,
the fee set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the SE Four Mile Drive Water
Connection District 1is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay a connection fee in the amount of $1,800.00 per acre, or
$3,000.00, whichever is greater.



(Ord. 1657 – Jul. 10 Supp.)



10.   Crosswinds Business Park Water Main Connection District 1.



   A.   Crosswinds Business Park Water Main Connection District 1 means
and includes only portions of the following described real estate shown on
the Crosswinds Business Park Neighborhood Plan #1 dated January 13, 2012:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



N 1/2 NE 1/4 LYING W OF SE CROSSWINDS DR LESS RD SEC 7-79-23 (Geoparcel
7923-07-200-006); and



-EX E 478.5F- N 1/2 NE 1/4 LYING E OF SE CROSSWINDS DR LESS RD SUBJ TO DRAIN
EAS SEC 7-79-23 (Geoparcel 7923-07-200-007); and



S & W OF LN COM E 1/4 COR SEC 7 THN S 171.2F S 247.89F TO BEG THN W 60F TO
EXISTING W RD ROW LN N 25.89F NW 70.6F WLY 7.42F ALNG CRV W 571.89F NW
285.63F W 427.09F WLY 121.83F ALNG CRV SW 61.24F SLY 19.46F ALNG CRV SE 10F
SW 81.04F NLY 32.77F ALNG CRV NW 64.1F WLY 19.04F ALNG CRV WLY 9.81F ALNG CRV
NW 80.5F ELY 31.24F ALNG CRV NE 64.35F NLY 17.66F ALNG CRV NW 1298.41F NLY
263.87F ALNG CRV TO N LN SW 1/4 NE 1/4 BNG NE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-79-23
(Geoparcel 7923-07-400-004); and



N & E OF A LN COM E 1/4 COR SEC 7 THN S 171.2F TO BEG THN W 60F TO EXISTING W
RD ROW LN SW 65.78F SWLY 91.26F ALNG CRV WLY 1216.29F SWLY 103.8F ALNG CRV
SWLY 7.44F ALNG CRV NW 67.92F NWLY 92.33F ALNG CRV NW 1220.48F NELY 250.75F
ALNG CRV TO N LN SW 1/4 NE 1/4 BNG NE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-79-23 (Geoparcel
7923-07-200-008); and



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Crosswinds Business
Park Water Main Connection District 1 shall pay a water connection fee in the
amount of $1,139 per acre to the City at the time of site plan approval. 
Such fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section 94.05, subsection
1. 



(Ord. 1755 – Apr. 13 Supp.)



11.   NW 36th Street Water Connection District 1.



   A.   NW 36th Street Water Connection District 1 means and includes
only the following described real estate and as shown on an exhibit on file
in the office of the Director of Public Works:



-EX W 471.5F N 287.4F ON E LN & N 294.4F S 894.4F ON W LN- S 1/2 SW 1/4 LESS
RD SEC 3-80-24  GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8024-03-300-004; and



- OUTLOT Y ANKENY ELEMENTARY 10 GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8024-03-401-001; and



PARCEL A BOOK 14618 PAGE 637 E 1/2 SE 1/4 LESS .67A RD SEC 3-80-24 GEOPARCEL
NUMBER 8024-03-400-010; and



PARCEL H BK 11793 PG 908 BEG 60.02F N OF SW COR THN N 400.13F E 582.18F S
400.13F W 582.18F TO POB SW 1/4 SW 1/4 SEC 2-80-24 GEOPARCEL NUMBER
8024-02-300-013; and



PARCEL G BK 11793 PG 908 BEG 460.15F N OF SW COR THN N 860.9F E 742.61F S
1260.69F TO N ROW LN OF NW 36TH ST W 160.28F N 400.13F W 582.18F TO POB SW
1/4 SW 1/4 SEC 2-80-24 GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8024-02-300-012; and



-EX COM NE COR SEC 10-80-24 THN W 806.80F ON N LN NE 1/4 NE 1/4 THN S 33F TO
POB THN S 27F TO PT ON S ROW LN NW 36TH ST W 14.99F N 27F E 14.66F TO POB-
PARCEL B BK 13005 PG 608 BEG 806.8F W OF NE COR THN S 60F E 736.06F TO W ROW
LN NW STATE ST SE 14.06F S 685.32F W 447.61F NW 443.08F N 438.31F E14.27F TO
POB NE 1/4 NE 1/4 LESS .011A RD EAS SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL NUMBER
8024-10-226-004; and



-EX COM N 1/4 COR SEC 10 S 33F TO POB THN E 195.23F ALNG S ROW LN NW 36TH ST
THN S 27F W 195.58F N 27F TO POB- & -EX N 33F RD EAS & BEG CNT SEC THN N
1734.47F NE 291.63F TO SW COR FIELDSTREAM PLAT 1 SELY ALNG CRV 1140.93F SELY
ALNG CRV 712.91F E 575.18F NELY ALNG CRV 39.23F TO W ROW LN S 59.85F S
1322.12F TO S LN NE 1/4W1264.37F W 1324.49F TO POB & FIELDSTREAM PLAT 1-W 1/2
NE 1/4 SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8024-10-201-004



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the NW 36th Street
Water Connection District 1 desiring to make a residential service connection
to the NW 36th Street Water Main shall pay a connection fee in the amount of
$3,000.00 to the City.  Such connection fee is in lieu of, and not in
addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the NW 36th Street Water
Connection District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the NW 36th
Street Water Main or extensions of mains connected to the NW 36th Street
Water Main as is necessary for their development.  The fee will be paid
prior to the connection, in the case of service connections to industrial or
commercial buildings, or prior to City approval of construction contracts for
a water main extension to serve a subdivision.  The fees are determined in
two components: cost per frontage foot on the NW 36th Street Water Main, or
cost per acre within the subdivision plat.  The cost for each component is
as follows, and the total connection fee will be the least of the two
components, or $3,000.00, whichever is greater:



 



Effective Date
 

Water Connection Fee (per acre)

 

Water Connection Fee (per frontage foot)



Prior to and through December 31, 2015
 

$1,232.60

 

$50.07



January 1, 2016
 

$1,281.90

 

$52.07



January 1, 2017
 

$1,331.20

 

$54.07



January 1, 2018
 

$1,380.50

 

$56.07



January 1, 2019
 

$1,429.80

 

$58.07



January 1, 2020
 

$1,479.10

 

$60.07



January 1, 2021
 

$1,528.40

 

$62.07



January 1, 2022
 

$1,577.70

 

$64.07



January 1, 2023
 

$1,627.00

 

$66.07



January 1, 2024 and thereafter
 

$1,676.30

 

$68.07





 



   Such connection fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section
94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   D.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the NW 36th Street
Water Main for the purpose of providing water service to property other than
established parcels included in the NW 36th Street Water Connection District
1.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or not the NW 36th Street
Water Main is hereafter further extended, no direct service connections shall
be made to that portion of the NW 36th Street Water Main defined hereunder as
the NW 36th Street Water Main, except as provided for hereunder.




(Ord. 1839 - Apr. 15 Supp.)




12.   NE 36th Street Water Connection District 1.



   A.   NE 36th Street Water Connection District 1 means and includes
only the following described real estate and as shown on an exhibit on file
in the office of the Director of Public Works:



      -EX ALBAUGH ESTS- & -EX BEG SW COR LT 1 ALBAUGH ESTS THN N 67.49F
NW 511.31F N 719.48F NW 872.89F N 740F NW 117.15F TO E ROW LN I-35 THN S
300.64F SW 124.64F S 249.13F SE 205.34F SW 414.51F SE 52.73F S 60.86F SW
61.83F S 599.94F S 298.48F E 692.92F TO POB- & -EX BEG 1828.03F N & 336.53F E
OF S 1/4 COR THN N 165.06F NE 377.78F S 201.12F SW 354.43F TO POB- SE 1/4
LESS 12.2 A INTST 35 ROW &  RD SEC 6-80-23  GEOPARCEL NUMBER
8024-03-300-004; and



      PRT PARCEL A W 347.43F N 280F E 100A NE 1/4 LESS .263A RD SEC
7-80-23  GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8023-07-200-008; and



      W 60A NE 1/4 LYG ELY & SLY OF I-35 ROW SEC 7-80-23  GEOPARCEL
NUMBER 8023-07-200-012



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the NE 36th Street
Water Connection District 1 desiring to make a residential service connection
to the NE 36th Street Water Main shall pay a connection fee in the amount of
$3,000.00 to the City.  Such connection fee is in lieu of, and not in
addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the NE 36th Street Water
Connection District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the NE 36th
Street Water Main or extensions of mains connected to the NE 36th Street
Water Main as is necessary for their development.  The fee will be paid
prior to the connection, in the case of service connections to industrial or
commercial buildings, or prior to City approval of construction contracts for
a water main extension to serve a subdivision.  The fees are determined in
two components: cost per frontage foot on the NE 36th Street Water Main, or
cost per acre within the subdivision plat.  The cost for each component is
as follows, and the total connection fee will be the least of the two
components, or $3,000.00, whichever is greater:



 


Effective Date

 

Water Connection Fee (per acre)

 

Water Connection Fee (per frontage foot)






Prior to and through December 31, 2015

 

$691.66

 

$55.11




January 1, 2016

 

$719.32

 

$57.31




January 1, 2017

 

$746.99

 

$59.51




January 1, 2018

 

$774.66

 

$61.72




January 1, 2019

 

$802.32

 

$63.92




January 1, 2020

 

$829.99

 

$66.13




January 1, 2021

 

$857.66

 

$68.33




January 1, 2022

 

$885.32

 

$70.54




January 1, 2023

 

$912.99

 

$72.74




January 1, 2024 and thereafter

 

$940.65

 

$74.94





 



   Such connection fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section
94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   D.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the NE 36th Street
Water Main for the purpose of providing water service to property other than
established parcels included in the NE 36th Street Water Connection District
1.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or not the NE 36th Street
Water Main is hereafter further extended, no direct service connections shall
be made to that portion of the NE 36th Street Water Main defined hereunder as
the NE 36th Street Water Main, except as provided for hereunder.




(Ord. 1851 – Jul. 15 Supp.)




13.   East 1st Street Rural Water Connection District 1.



   A.   East 1st Street Rural Water Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate and as shown on an exhibit
on file in the office of the Director of Public Works:



      - EX W 700F N 175F- BEG SW COR THN N 2146.9F E 1522F S 443F W
1015.6F S 411.6F W 208.7F S1302.1F W320.4F TO POB SW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 17-80-23
GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8023-17-300-005; and



      N 1/2 N 1/2 NW 1/4 LESS 2.5A RD SEC 20-80-23
GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8023-20-100-001; and



      N 380.21F E 1320F N 1/2 NE 1/4 LESS 1.52A RD SEC 19-80-23
GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8023-19-200-001; and



      -EX N 380.21F E 1320F & PARCEL I BK 8245 PG 716 BEG 796.15F E OF
NW COR THN S 414.06F E 258.94F N 414F W 273.11F TO POB- N 1/2 NE 1/4 E OF
FRISK DR LESS RD SEC 19-80-23
GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8023-19-200-009; and



      PARCEL I BK 8245 BK 716 BEG 796.15F E OF NW COR THN S 414.06F E
258.94F N 414F W 273.11F TO POB NE 1/4 LESS .331A RD SEC 19-80-23
GEOPARCEL NUMBER 8023-19-200-010



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the East 1st Street
Rural Water Connection District 1 desiring to make a residential service
connection to the East 1st Street Rural Water Main shall pay a connection fee
in the amount of $3,000.00 to the City.  Such connection fee is in lieu of,
and not in addition to, the fees set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1
through 4.



   C.   In the event any parcel within the East 1st Street Rural Water
Connection District 1 is developed for industrial or commercial use, or is
subdivided for industrial, commercial or residential use and additional
structures are permitted thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall
be required to pay the fees for the right to make connections to the East 1st
Street Rural Water Main or extensions of mains connected to the East 1st
Street Rural Water Main as is necessary for their development.  The fee will
be paid prior to the connection, in the case of service connections to
industrial or commercial buildings, or prior to City approval of construction
contracts for a water main extension to serve a subdivision.  The fees are
determined in two components: cost per frontage foot on the East 1st Street
Rural Water Main, or cost per acre within the subdivision plat.  The cost
for each component is as follows, and the total connection fee will be the
least of the two components, or $3,000.00, whichever is greater:



 


Effective Date

 

Water Connection Fee (per acre)

 

Water Connection Fee (per frontage foot)






Prior to and through December 31, 2017

 

$4,257.80

 

$104.10




January 1, 2018

 

$4,404.69

 

$107.69




January 1, 2019

 

$4,551.58

 

$111.28




January 1, 2020

 

$4,698.48

 

$114.87




January 1, 2021

 

$4,845.37

 

$118.46




January 1, 2022

 

$4,992.27

 

$122.05




January 1, 2023

 

$5,139.16

 

$125.64




January 1, 2024

 

$5,286.05

 

$129.23




January 1, 2025

 

$5,432.95

 

$132.83




January 1, 2026 and thereafter

 

$5,579.84

 

$136.42





 



   Such connection fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section
94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   D.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the East 1st Street
Rural Water Main for the purpose of providing water service to property other
than established parcels included in the East 1st Street Rural Water
Connection District 1.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or
not the East 1st Street Rural Water Main is hereafter further extended, no
direct service connections shall be made to that portion of the East 1st
Street Rural Water Main defined hereunder as the East 1st Street Rural Water
Main, except as provided for hereunder.




(Ord. 1899 - Feb. 17 Supp.)




94.06  SEWER CONNECTION DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED. 



The following sewer connection districts have been established and all
connection requirements provided in this chapter shall apply.



1.   Seasons Ridge Sanitary Sewer Connection District I. 



   A.   The “Seasons Ridge Sanitary Sewer Connection District I”
means and includes only the following described real estate:



      (1)   “Seasons Ridge Sanitary Sewer Extension I” means the
sanitary sewer installed along and adjacent to Golfview Acres Plats 3 and 5,
official plats now included in and forming a part of the City.



      (2)   “Seasons Ridge Sanitary Sewer Connection District I”
means and includes only the following described real estate:



Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 15 in Golfview Acres Plat 3, an official
plat now included in and forming a part of the City; and



Lots 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in Golfview Acres Plat 5, an official plat now included
in and forming a part of the City.



   B.   The owner of any lot included within the Seasons Ridge Sanitary
Sewer Connection District I desiring to make a service connection to the
Seasons Ridge Sanitary Sewer Extension I shall pay a connection fee to the
City in the amount of $2,000.00 for the right of make such connection.  Such
fee is in lieu of, and not in addition to, the fees set forth in Section
94.04, subsections 1 through 4.  In the event any such lot is subdivided and
additional residential structures are permitted thereon, the owner of each
such structure shall be required to pay an additional $2,000.00 fee. 



   C.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the Seasons Ridge
Sanitary Sewer Extension for the purpose of providing sanitary sewer service
to property other than property included in the Seasons Ridge Sanitary Sewer
Connection District I.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or
not the Seasons Ridge Sanitary Sewer Extension is hereafter further extended,
no direct service connections shall be made to that portion of the Seasons
Ridge Sanitary Sewer Extension defined hereunder as the Seasons Ridge
Sanitary Sewer Extension I except as provided for hereunder.



2.   Oralabor Road Trunk Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:



      (1)   “Oralabor Road Trunk Sewer Project” means the
eighteen-inch diameter and twelve-inch diameter gravity trunk sewer extending
from the WRA Four Mile Interceptor Extension sewer north of SE Oralabor Road
(County NE 78 th Avenue) northwesterly under SE Four Mile Drive (County NE 29
th Street) to a point near the north line of the SE¼ SE¼ of Section 30
Township 80 North Range 23 West of the 5 th P.M.



      (2)   “Oralabor Road Trunk Sewer Connection District 1”
means and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Beginning at the SE corner of Section 30-80-23; thence N. 89°59'17" W. along
the south line of said Section 30-80-23, a distance of 1,728.62 feet; thence
N. 01°28'18" W., 355.10 feet to the south line of Lot 3, LGI Business Park,
an O.P.; thence N. 89°59'17" W. along said south line of said Lot 3, 153.05
feet to the SW corner of said Lot 3; thence N. 25°08'11" E., along the west
line of said LGI Business Park, a distance of 285.21 feet, said west line
also being the east line of Metro North II – Plat Two, an O.P.; thence
continuing along said east line of Metro North II – Plat Two, N. 14°04'24"
E., a distance of 457.02 feet; thence N. 04°54'17" E., a distance of 423.03
feet to the NE corner of said Metro North II – Plat Two, said point also
being the SE corner of Metro North II – Plat Three, an O.P.; thence N.
04°54'17" E. along the east line of said Metro North II – Plat Three,
90.06 feet; thence N. 00°00'30" E., 911.28 feet to the NE corner of said
Metro North II – Plat Three; thence N. 89°59'30" W. along the north line
of Metro North II – Plat Three, a distance of 601.88 feet; thence
continuing along said north line of said Plat Three, S. 55°17'58" W., 70.00
feet; thence N. 89°59'30" W., 466.64 feet to the NW corner of said Plat
Three, said point also being on the east line of Lot 4, Metro North II –
Plat One; thence N. 0°00'30" E. along said east line of Lot 4, 203.52 feet
to the north line of the SW¼ of Section 30-80-23; thence S. 89°52'44" E.
along the north line of the SW¼ of Section 30-80-23; 105.00 feet to the
center of Section 30-80-23; thence easterly along the north line of the SE¼
of Section 30-80-23 to the west line of the E. thirty acres of the NE¼ SE¼
Section 30-80-23; thence southerly along the west line of the east thirty
acres of the NE¼ SE¼ Section 30-80-23 to the north line of Parcel “D”
as shown on the plat of survey recorded in Book 8043, Page 803; thence S.
89°56'01" E. along the north line of said Parcel “D” to the NW corner of
LGI Business Park; thence continuing S. 89°56'0l" E. along the north line of
LGI Business Park, 452.94 feet to the NE corner of LGI Business Park, and
continuing easterly along the north line of the SE¼ SE¼ Section 30-80-23,
330 feet to the NE corner of the SE¼ SE¼ Section 30-80-23; thence easterly
along the north line of the SW¼ SW¼ Section 29-80-23 to the west
right-of-way line of NE 29th Street; thence southerly along said west
right-of-way line of NE 29th Street to the north line of Lot 2 of the O.P.
SW¼ SW¼ Section 29-80-23; thence easterly to the NE corner of said Lot 2;
thence southerly along the east line of Lots 2 and 3 of the O.P. of the SW¼
SW¼ Section 29-80-23 to the south line of the SW¼ SW¼ Section 29-80-23;
thence westerly along said south line to the point of beginning.



   B.   The owners of residences on parcels of less than one acre in
size may connect such residences to the Oralabor Road Lift Station and Trunk
Sewer Project upon approval of their application for connection, approval of
the size of the connection, and payment of a connection fee in the amount of
$2,600.00 to the City.  Such fee is in lieu of, and not in addition to, the
fees set forth in Section 94.04, subsections 1 through 4.



   C.   The owners of residences on parcels in excess of one acre in
size may connect such residences to the Oralabor Road Lift Station and Trunk
Sewer Project upon payment of a connection fee in the amount of $2,600.00 per
acre.  However, the owner may divide said parcel into a residence parcel of
no more than one acre and a remainder parcel, and pay the connection fee in
the amount of $2,600.00 for the residence parcel.  The connection fee for
the remainder parcel shall be payable at such time as the remainder parcel
shall be connected to the Oralabor Road Lift Station and Trunk Sewer
Project.  For purposes of this section, division of the property into a
residence parcel and a remainder parcel may be accomplished by submitting a
drawing showing a graphical depiction of the two parcels including dimensions
accurate to within a distance of one foot, a legal description of the entire
parcel and a legal description of the residence parcel with such accuracy as
to allow the City to determine a reasonable description of the remainder
parcel.  For purposes of this section, the division of property does not
require a subdivision of the property or a plat of survey. 



   D.   In the event any parcel within the Oralabor Road Lift Station
and Trunk Sewer Connection District I is developed for industrial or
commercial use, or is subdivided and additional structures are permitted
thereon, the owner or developer of the parcel shall be required to pay the
fee for the right to make connections to the Oralabor Road Trunk Sewer or
extensions of sewer mains connected to the Oralabor Road Trunk Sewer as
necessary for their development.  The fee will be paid prior to the
connection, in the case of service connections to industrial or commercial
buildings, or prior to City approval of construction contracts for a sewer
main extension to serve a subdivision.  The fee is determined at a rate of
$2,600.00 per acre for the entire parcel being developed or subdivided.



   E.   Nothing in this section is intended to preclude future further
extensions, by the City or upon approval of the City, of the Oralabor Road
Trunk Sewer or sewer mains connected to the Oralabor Road trunk sewer, or
sewer mains connected to the Oralabor Road lift station for the purpose of
providing sanitary sewer service to property other than established parcels
included in the Oralabor Road Lift Station and Trunk Sewer Connection
District I.  It is the intent of this section that, whether or not the
Oralabor Road Trunk Sewer is hereafter further extended, no connections shall
be made to that Oralabor Road Lift Station and Trunk Sewer Project or
extension except as provided for hereunder.



3.   Rock Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   The “Rock Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1” means
and includes only the following described real estate:



Beginning at the SE Corner of Section 17, Township 80 North, Range 24 West of
the 5th P.M. (Section 17-80-24); thence west along the south line of Section
17-80-24 to the SW corner of the SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Section 17-80-24; thence
north along the west line of the E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Section 17-80-24 to the NW
corner of the NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Section 17-80-24; thence east along the north
line of the NE 1/4 SW 1/4 to the center of Section 17-80-24; thence north
along the west line of the NE 1/4 of Section 17-80-24 to the NW corner of the
NW 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section 17-80-24; thence east along the north section line
of Section 17-80-24 to the NE Corner of the NW 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section
17-80-24; thence south along the east line of the NW 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section
17-80-24 to the SE corner of the NW 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section 17-80-24; thence
east along the north line of the SE 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section 17-80-24 to the NE
corner of the SE 1/4 NE 1/4 of Section 17-80-24;



thence east along the north line of the S 1/2 NW 1/4 of Section 16, Township
80 North, Range 24 West of the 5th P.M. (Section 16-80-24); to the NE comer
of the S 1/2 NW 1/4 of Section 16-80-24; thence east 623.27 feet along the
north line of the of S 1/2 NE 1/4 of Section 16-80-24 to the SW corner of Lot
31, Hidden Creek Plat 3, an Official Plat; thence northerly along the west
plat boundary to the NW corner of Lot 32, Hidden Creek Plat 3; thence
easterly 175.17 feet along the north plat boundary to the NE corner of Lot
33, Hidden Creek Plat 3; thence south 138.44 feet along the east lot line of
Lot 33, Hidden Creek Plat 3 to the SE corner of Lot 33, Hidden Creek Plat 3,
said point also being on the north right-of-way line of NW 14th Street;
thence west along said north right-of-way line to a point at the centerline
of NW Boulder Drive extended; thence south 30.00 feet to the centerline of NW
14th Street and its intersection with NW Boulder Drive; thence continuing
south along the centerline of NW Boulder Drive 200.00 feet to the south plat
boundary, Hidden Creek Plat 3;



thence south 190.04 feet along the centerline of NW Boulder Drive to the
south right-of-way line of NW 13th Street, Boulder Brook Plat 15, an Official
Plat; thence southwesterly along the centerline of NW Boulder Drive to the
north line of Lot 161, Boulder Brook Plat 15 extended; thence southeasterly
30.00 feet to the to the NW Corner of Lot 161, Boulder Brook Plat 15; thence
southeasterly along the north line of Lot 161 to the NE Corner of Lot 161,
Boulder Brook Plat 15; thence southwesterly 12.41 feet to the NW Corner of
lot 79, Boulder Brook Plat 14, an Official Plat; thence southeasterly along
the north lot line of Lot 79 and continuing on said north line extended,
155.00 feet to the centerline of NW Rolling Rock Road, Boulder Brook Plat 14;
thence northeasterly along the centerline of NW Rolling Rock Road to the
centerline of NW Rockcrest Road, Boulder Brook Plat 14; thence southeasterly
along the centerline of NW Rockcrest Road to the south lot line of Lot 61,
Boulder Brook Plat 14 extended; thence west 30.00 feet to the westerly
right-of-way line of NW Rockcrest Road and continuing west 28.31 feet along
the south line of Lot 61, Boulder Brook Plat 14 to the NE Corner of Lot 62,
Boulder Brook Plat 14; thence southwesterly 721.08 feet along the eastern
lots lines of Lots 62 - 68 and Lot 42 to the SE Corner of Lot 42, Boulder
Brook Plat 14 and continuing that alignment to the centerline of NW Rockridge
Road, Boulder Brook Plat 14; thence southeasterly along the centerline of NW
Rockridge Road to a point perpendicular to the north lot line of Lot 40,
Boulder Brook Plat 14 extended; thence southwesterly 30.00 feet to the
northeast corner of Lot 40, Boulder Brook Plat 14, and continuing along the
north lot line of Lot 40, Boulder Brook Plat 14 127.95 feet to the NW Corner
of Lot 40, Boulder Brook Plat 14; thence southeasterly 838.12 feet along the
south lot lines of Lots 40 — 32, Boulder Brook Plat 14 and continuing to
the centerline of NW Rockcrest Road, Boulder Brook Plat 14; thence south
along the centerline of NW Rockcrest Road to the centerline of NW Boulder
Point Place, Boulder Brook Plat 14; thence east along the centerline of NW
Boulder Point Place 155.00 feet to the east plat boundary, Boulder Brook Plat
14; thence south along the east line of the NW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Section 16-80-24
to the SE corner of the NW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Section 16-80-24; thence west along
the south line of the NW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Section 16-80-24 to the SW corner of
the NW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Section 16-80-24; thence west along the south line of
the N 1/2 SW 1/4 of Section 16-80-24 to a point on the west lot line of
Street Lot “A”, Watercrest Plat 4, an Official Plat;



thence northerly along the west lot line of Lot “A”, Watercrest Plat 4 to
the SE corner of Outlot Z, Watercrest Plat 4; thence west 769.66 feet along
the south lot line of Outlot Z, Watercrest Plat 4 to the SW corner of Outlot
Z, Watercrest Plat 4; thence north along the west lot line of Outlot Z,
Watercrest Plat 4 to a point on the north line of the SW 1/4 of Section
16-80-24; thence west along the north line of the SW 1/4 of Section 16-80-24
to the NW corner of the SW 1/4 of Section 16-80-24; thence south along the
west line of the SW 1/4 of Section 16-80-24 to the point of beginning.



and: -EX BEG 220F NE OF SW COR SE 1/4 NW 1/4 OF SEC THIN SE 79.5F NWLY 273F
NELY 53.7F SE 203.4F TO POB RD EAS - LT 1 VADEN PLACE GEOPARCEL #
8024-17-177-007



and: -EX BEG W COR NE 35F SE 63.4F SWLY 53.7F TO N ROW HWY 415 NW 84.2F TO
POB- LOT A & ALL LOT 3 VADEN PLACE GEOPARCEL # 8024-17-177-002



and: -EX BEG SW COR THN N 52.8F SE 41.6F SW 35F TO POB- LOT 4 SUBJ TO .07A
POND EAS VADEN PLACE GEOPARCEL # 8024-17-177-008



and: LT 2 VADEN PLACE GEOPARCEL # 8024-17-177-004



and: -EX BEG 33F N & 30F W OF SE COR THN W 565.13F NE 147.36F E 420.52F S
26.78F TO POB RD EAS & E 30F N 434F S 467F & MINK ACRES & VADEN PLACE- E 1/2
NW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 17-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-17-126-001



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Rock Creek Trunk
Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established, as follows:



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per acre – 1 acre minimum)


Prior to and through December 31, 2007
 
$ 2,350.00


January 1, 2008
 
$ 2,540.00


January 1, 2009
 
$ 2,730.00


January 1, 2010
 
$ 2,920.00


January 1, 2011
 
$ 3,110.00


January 1, 2012
 
$ 3,300.00


January 1, 2013
 
$ 3,490.00


January 1, 2014
 
$ 3,680.00


January 1, 2015
 
$ 3,870.00


January 1, 2016 and thereafter
 
$ 4,060.00




 



   C.   Connection fees established by this section, or any part of
said connection fees, may be used to pay the costs associated with the Rock
Creek Phase III Sanitary Trunk Sewer Project in accordance with the
Development Agreement dated April 3, 2006, between the City of Ankeny and DML
Land Development, L.C.



4.   Otter Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1. 



   A.   Otter Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



The Southwest Fractional ¼ of Section 6, Township 80 North, Range 23 West of
the 5th P.M. (Section 6-80-23); less 7 acres Interstate Highway 35
right-of-way and 6.74 acres road; GEOPARCELS # 8023-06-300-001, #
8023-06-300-002, and # 8023-06-300-003; and



Lots 1 and 2, Albaugh Golf and Commercial Plat 1, an Official Plat;
GEOPARCELS # 8023-07-126-002 AND # 8023-07-126-003.



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Otter Creek Trunk
Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established as follows:



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per acre – 1 acre minimum)


Prior to and through December 31, 2007
 
$ 1,711.00


January 1, 2008
 
$ 1,769.00


January 1, 2009
 
$ 1,827.00


January 1, 2010
 
$ 1,885.00


January 1, 2011
 
$ 1,943.00


January 1, 2012
 
$ 2,001.00


January 1, 2013
 
$ 2,059.00


January 1, 2014
 
$ 2,117.00


January 1, 2015
 
$ 2,175.00


January 1, 2016 and thereafter
 
$ 2,233.00




 



5.   SE Four Mile Drive Trunk Sewer Connection District 1. 



   A.   SE Four Mile Drive Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Clover Ridge West Plat 1, an official plat; and



Hillside Estates Plat 1, an official plat; and



Clover Ridge Plat 1, an official plat; and



Clover Ridge Plat 2, an official plat; and



Clover Ridge Plat 3, an official plat; and



Clover Ridge West Plat 4, an official plat; and



N 10A S 20A SE¼ NW¼ lying W of RD Sec 29-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-29-100-007;
and



S 10A SE¼ NW¼ lying W of RD Sec 29-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-29-100-008.



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the SE Four Mile Trunk
Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established as follows:



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per acre – 1 acre minimum)


Prior to and through December 31, 2007
 
$ 2,105.00


January 1, 2008
 
$ 2,176.00


January 1, 2009
 
$ 2,247.00


January 1, 2010
 
$ 2,318.00


January 1, 2011
 
$ 2,389.00


January 1, 2012
 
$ 2,460.00


January 1, 2013
 
$ 2,531.00


January 1, 2014
 
$ 2,602.00


January 1, 2015
 
$ 2,673.00


January 1, 2016 and thereafter
 
$ 2,744.00




 



6.   Nicholas Heights Sanitary Sewer Connection District 1. 



   A.   Nicholas Heights Sanitary Sewer Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Lots 1 through 4 and Lots 8 through 11, Nicholas Heights, an official plat;
and



Except the west 550 feet of Lots 5 through 7, Nicholas Heights, an official
plat.



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Nicholas Heights
Sanitary Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection
shall pay a connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established as
follows:



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per parcel)


Prior to and through December 31, 2007
 
$ 2,037.28


January 1, 2008
 
$ 2,128.14


January 1, 2009
 
$ 2,219.01


January 1, 2010
 
$ 2,309.87


January 1, 2011
 
$ 2,400.73


January 1, 2012
 
$ 2,491.59


January 1, 2013
 
$ 2,582.46


January 1, 2014
 
$ 2,673.32


January 1, 2015
 
$ 2,764.18


January 1, 2016 and thereafter
 
$ 2,855.04




 



7.   Otter Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 2.



   A.   Otter Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 2 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



-EX ALBAUGH ESTS- SE 1/4 LESS 12.2 A INTST 35 ROW & RD SEC 6-80-23 (GEOPARCEL
# 8023-06-400-001)



and: OUT LOT Z ALBAUGH ESTATES (GEOPARCEL # 8023-06-400-002)



and: -EX 2.7 A INTST =35- SW 1/4 NE FRL 1/4 SEC 6-80-23 (GEOPARCEL #
8023-06-200-002)



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Otter Creek Trunk
Sewer Connection District 2 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established, as follows: 



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per acre—1 acre minimum)


Prior to and through December 31, 2008
 
$ 2,445


January 1, 2009
 
$ 2,527


January 1, 2010
 
$ 2,613


January 1, 2011
 
$ 2,701


January 1, 2012
 
$ 2,792


January 1, 2013
 
$ 2,887


January 1, 2014
 
$ 2,984


January 1, 2015
 
$ 3,085


January 1, 2016
 
$ 3,190


January 1, 2017 and thereafter
 
$ 3,297




 




(Ord. 1619 – Oct. 08 Supp.)




8.   Crosswinds Trunk Sewer Connection District 1. 



   A.   Crosswinds Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 means and includes
only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



EX COM SW COR THN E 1246.93F NE 970.08F E 138.28F TO BEG THN NE 144.42F NELY
1245.44F N 999.71F NE 15.32F SE 735.22F S 1010.13F S 338.1F SE 318.65F W
228.11F TO POB- BEG 572.26F N OF CNTR OF SEC THN N 415.28F W1354.98F NLY
1024.7F TO N LN E 1991.85F S 1462.98F W 735.15F TO POB N 1/2 SEC 6-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-100-018



AND: CORPORATE WOODS BUSINESS PARK PLAT 2, AN OFFICIAL PLAT



AND: CORPORATE WOODS BUSINESS PARK PLAT 1, AN OFFICIAL PLAT



AND:  EX COM SW COR OF SEC THN E 1041.8F ALNG S LN N 55F TO N ROW LN NE 62ND
AV & POB THN NE 623.25F NE 651.55F ALNG EXISTING ROW LN I-35 E 197.44F SW
423.04F SW 888.62F TO N ROW LN NE 62ND AV W TO POB- BEG 1033.1F E & 55.7F N
OF SW COR OF SEC THN E 624F NE 394.1F NELY 355.7F N 773.6F W 1001.6F SW
1275.2F TO POB SW 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-300-017



AND:  EX E 210F S 416F & W 150F E 360F S 367F- SW FRL 1/4 LYG S & E OF RY
LESS RD SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-300-008



AND:  BEG 50F N & 210F W OF SE COR THN N 317F W 150F S 317F E 150F TO POB SW
FRL 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-300-009



AND:  E 210F S 416F SW FRL 1/4 LESS RD SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL #
7923-06-300-010



AND:  EX PARCEL I BK 8629 PG 421 BEG 1327.15F E & 779.03F N OF S 1/4 COR SEC
6 THN W 845.01F NE 566.28F E 761.81F S 541.67F TO POB- SW 1/4 SE 1/4 LYING SW
OF CORPORATE WOODS DR LESS RY & RD SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-400-025



AND:  BEG 202.7F N OF SE COR THN NWLY 771.51F NW 37.31F E TO E LN S TO POB
SW 1/4 SE 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-400-026



AND:  EX S 240F E 316.23F- & -EX PAR A BK 7359 PG 636- & -EX BEG 316.33F W
SE COR THN W 1010.88F N 202.7F SELY ALNG CUR 603.59F E 440.6F S TO POB- BEG
316.23F E OF SE COR THN W TO SW COR N 430F SELY 1010F TO PT 385F N OF S LN
THN S TO POB SE 1/4 SE 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-400-027



AND:  EX S 33F & E60F RD EAS- S 206.16F E 316.23F SE 1/4 SE 1/4 SEC 6-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-400-006



AND:  PARCEL A N334.38F S540.54F E316.23F SE 1/4 LESS .46A RD EAS SEC
6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-400-012



AND:  EX PAR G 8629-419 BEG 1327.15F E & 779.03F N OF S 1/4 COR SECTION 6
THN N 541.67F W 1170.17F TO S LN RR ROW NE ALONG RR ROW 912.86F NW 50F NELY
1220.27F S 501.35F SE 876.36F W 904.99F TO POB- NW 1/4 SE1/4 LYG S OF RR ROW
& -EX E 60F RD EAS- & -EX PAR A N 334.38F S 540.54F E 316.23F SE 1/4- & -EX S
206.16F E 316.23F SE 1/4- & -EX BEG SE COR THN W TO SW COR N 430F SE 1010F TO
PT 385F N OF S LN THN S TO PT 314.5F W & 240F N OF SE COR E 314.5F S240F TO
POB- E 1/2 SE 1/4 LYG SE OF RR ROW SEC 6-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-400-020



AND:  EX S 1065.15F- W 757F S OF RR LESS RD SW 1/4 SEC 5-79-23 GEOPARCEL #
7923-05-300-001



AND:  EX W 60F RD- BEG 1040.15F N OF SW COR THN E 1155F THN N TO PT 330F S
OF N LN THN W TO PT 1584F W OF E LN THN N TO S LN RR THN SWLY ALNG RR TO PT
757F E OF W LN & 1064.5F N OF S LN THN W 757F TO W LN THN S 25F TO POB SW 1/4
SEC 5-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-05-300-002



AND:  PARCEL D S1039.5F W1155F SW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS 2.94A RD SEC 5-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-05-300-008



AND:  N 1/2 NW FRL 1/4 LYG BET RY ROW & I-35 & S OF NE 62ND AVE SEC 7-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-100-005



AND:  EX COM W 1/4 COR THN E 1299.81F NW 845.77F E 113.55F TO BEG THN NW
557F NE 515.22F SE 231.44F SE 330.78F SE 507.37F W500.63F TO POB- NWFRL1/4
LYG E OF RR ROW & E OF I-35 & N OF S LN OF N33A OF S 1/2 LESS RD SEC 7-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-100-008



AND:  EX E 478.5F- N 1/2 NE 1/4 LESS RD SUBJ TO DRAIN EAS SEC 7-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-200-001



AND:  EX S 240F NLY 1154.12F E 110F- E 478.5F N 1/2 NE 1/4 LESS RD SEC
7-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-200-005



AND:  1 SQUARE A NW COR NW 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS .458A RD SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL #
7923-08-100-001



AND:  EX 1 SQUARE A NW COR & PARCEL F BK 8529 PG 964 BEG 884.67F E OF NW COR
THN E 435F S 545F W 435F N 545F TO POB & BEG 1314.2F N OF W 1/4 COR OF SEC
THN N 258F ALNG W LN E 100F S 258F W 100F TO POB- NW 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS 2.24A RD
SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-100-009



AND:  PARCEL F N 545F E 435F NW 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS .44A RD SEC 8-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-100-008



AND:  S 54.25A NW FRL 1/4 E OF I 35 SEC 7-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-100-009



AND:  S 1/2 NE 1/4 LESS 1.81A RD SEC 7-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-200-003



AND:  N 1/2 SW 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-100-003



AND:  LOT 1 SULT ACRES GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-100-004



AND:  NE 1/4 SW FRL 1/4 E OF I 35 SEC 7-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-300-011



AND:  N 1/2 SE 1/4 LESS 1.81A RD SEC 7-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-400-001



AND:  N 195F W 314F NW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 8-79-23; AND S 80F W 314F SW
1/4 NW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-300-001



AND:  PARCEL B BEG 195F S OF NW COR THN E 314F N 170.02F E 1007.21F S
631.25F W 1316.06F N 461.16F TO POB NW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS .63A RD SEC 8-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-300-009



AND:  PARCEL C BEG 656.16F S OF NW COR THN E 1316.06F S 666.45F W 860.17F N
208.71F W 450.42F N 453.54F TO POB NW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS .62A RD SEC 8-79-23
GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-300-010



AND:  SW 1/4 SE 1/4 LESS 1 A RD SEC 7-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-400-002



AND:  SE 1/4 SE 1/4 LESS 2.44A RD SEC 7-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-07-400-003



AND:  S 416F N 493F W 225F SW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL #
7923-08-300-004



AND:  S 208.71F W450.42F NW1/4 SW1/4 & -EX S 416F N493F W 225F & BEG 60F E
OF SW COR THN N 70F E 453.5F NE 553.48F SWLY 338.35F W 760F TO POB- SW1/4 SW
1/4 LYG N OF RR ROW LESS RD SEC 8-79-23 GEOPARCEL # 7923-08-300-008



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Crosswinds Trunk
Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established, as follows: 



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per acre—1 acre minimum)


Prior to and through December 31, 2008
 
$ 1,768


January 1, 2009
 
$ 1,835


January 1, 2010
 
$ 1,905


January 1, 2011
 
$ 1,977


January 1, 2012
 
$ 2,053


January 1, 2013
 
$ 2,131


January 1, 2014
 
$ 2,212


January 1, 2015
 
$ 2,296


January 1, 2016
 
$ 2,383


January 1, 2017 and thereafter
 
$ 2,473




 




(Ord. 1626 – Oct. 08 Supp.)




9.   Eastside Sanitary Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   Eastside Sanitary Sewer Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



EX BEG SW COR THN N 767.2F E 70F S 195F W10F S578.44F W60.32F TO POB- N
435.6F S 770F W 200F SW FRL 1/4 SEC 7-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-300-003



and: -EX BEG SW COR THN N 767.2F E 70F S 195F W10F S578.44F W60.32F TO POB- W
200F S 334.4F SW FRL 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-300-004



and: E 160F W 360F S 770F LESS 1.60 A RD SEC 7-80-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-07-300-005



and: BEG 360F E SW COR THN N 285F E 150F S 185F W 20F S 100F W 130F TO BEG SW
FRL 1/4 SW FRL 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-300-006



and: OUTLOT D GREENWOOD ACRES PLAT 2; AND PARCEL B BEG 575F W OF S1/4 COR THN
W685.3F NELY 435F SE 446.4F SE 378F TO POB S 1/2 SW FRL 1/4 LESS .19A RD SEC
7-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-300-008



and: -EX PARCEL B BEG 575F W OF S 1/4 COR THN W685.3F NELY 435F SE 446.4F SE
378F TO POB- E 44.34A LYG E OF I 35 S 1/2 SW FRL 1/4 LESS .51A RD SEC 7-80-23
GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-300-009



and: -EX NURSERY DRIVE ESTS PLTS 1 & 2- W 45A S 1/2 SE 1/4 LESS RD SEC
7-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-07-451-001



and: PARCEL F BOOK 11144 PAGE 966 NW FRL 1/4 SEC 18-80-23; AND LOT 1
GREENWOOD ACRES PLAT 2 GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-128-004



and: N 75A MEAS ON LN PAR TO N LN NE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 18-80-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-200-007



and: E 1/2 NW 1/4 LYG E OF NE FRISK DR & -EX N 75A PAR TO N LN & DEER CREEK
ESTATES PLAT 1- N 1950.35F NE 1/4 SEC 18-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-200-009



and: PARCEL C BEG CNT OF SEC THN N 695.45F E 329.3F S 694.65F TO S LN W
329.5F TO POB W1/2 W1/2 SW1/4 NE1/4 LESS .667A RD SEC 18-80-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-200-005



and: -EX N 1950.35 & PARCEL C BOOK 10528 PAGE 961 BEG CNT OF SEC THN N
695.45F E 329.3F S694.65F TO S LN W 329.5F TO POB- LYG N & W OF DEER CREEK
ESTATES PLT 1 NE 1/4 SEC18-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-200-010



and: -EX N 1950.35- LYG E OF DEER CREEK ESTATES PLAT 1 NE 1/4 SEC 18-80-23
GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-200-011



and: -EX DEER CREEK ESTATES PLAT 1- BEG 2199F N OF S 1/4 COR THN E 300F SE
190.5F NELY 889.3F ELY 1471.3F TO E LN N 269.35F W2636F S 437.75F TO POB SE
1/4 SEC 18-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-426-012



and: DEER CREEK ESTATES PLAT 1, AN OFFICIAL PLAT



and: LOTS 16 AND 17 IN GREENWOOD ACRES PLAT 3, AN OFFICIAL PLAT



and: LOTS 9, 10 AND 11 IN HERITAGE WOODS, AN OFFICIAL PLAT



and: IRREG 6.5A PC NE COR N OF CNTY RD H & E OF INTRSTATE-35 SW 1/4 SW FRL
1/4 SEC 18-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-352-001



and: -EX BEG 1961.8F E & 75F N OF SW COR SEC 18 THN W 289.3F NW162.3F N91.2F
SELY 223.5F E270.5F S40F TO POB- W 650F SE 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS .75A RD SEC
18-80-23 GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-376-001



and: BEG 1961.8F E & 75F N OF SW COR THN W 289.3F NW 162.3F N 91.2F SELY
223.5F E 270.5F S 40F TO POB SW FRL 1/4 SEC 18-80-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-376-002



and: -EX W 650F- SE 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS 2.203 A RD SEC 18-80-23 GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-377-001



and: OUTLOT Y GREENWOOD ACRES PLAT NO. 7 GEOPARCEL # 8023-18-452-019



and: S 418.85F W520F OUTLOT X GREENWOOD ACRES PLT NO 6 GEOPARCEL #
8023-18-452-002



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Eastside Sanitary
Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established, as follows: 



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per acre—1 acre minimum)


Prior to and through December 31, 2009
 
$ 2,227


January 1, 2010
 
$ 2,352


January 1, 2011
 
$ 2,477


January 1, 2012
 
$ 2,602


January 1, 2013
 
$ 2,727


January 1, 2014
 
$ 2,852


January 1, 2015
 
$ 2,977


January 1, 2016
 
$ 3,102


January 1, 2017
 
$ 3,227


January 1, 2018 and thereafter
 
$ 3,352




 




(Ord. 1634 – Apr. 09 Supp.)




10.   Northern Interceptor Trunk Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   Northern Interceptor Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 means
and includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



S 1/2 SW 1/4 & S 3A N 1/2 SW 1/4 N OF UP RR ROW LESS RD SEC 10-80-24
GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-300-004



and: -EX S 50F- S 330F W 660F SE 1/4 SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-400-005



and: -EX S 330F W 660F & BEG 310.92F W OF SE COR OF SEC THN W 1677.62F ALNG S
LN N 50F E 1677.62F S50F TO POB- & -EX E156F S 1/2- W 1/2 SE 1/4 SEC 10-80-24
GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-400-009



and: -EX S 50F- E 156F SW 1/4 SE 1/4 & -EX BEG SE COR THN W310F N75F E
310.92F S 75.01F TO POB & BEG 310.92F W OF SE COR THN W 1677.62F ALNG S LN N
50F E 1677.62F S 50F TO POB & BEG NE COR THN S 2568.94F TO N ROW LN NW 18TH
ST W 60F N 2568.77F E 60.01F TO POB- SE 1/4 SE 1/4 SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL #
8024-10-400-011



and: S 1.5A N 1/2 NW 1/4 SW 1/4 & -EX S 1.5A- S 20A NW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS .76A
RD SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-300-006



and: -EX S 1.5A- N 1/2 NW 1/4 SW 1/4 & -EX S 1.5A- NE 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS .7A RD
SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-300-005



and: -EX W 50F RD EAS & PARCEL A BK 9452 PG 76 BEG 1583.54F S OF NW COR OF
SEC THN E 300F S 216F W 300F N 216F TO POB & N 260F W 203.85F- S 1/2 NW 1/4
SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-100-007



and: N 1/2 NW 1/4 LESS 3.19 A RD SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-100-001



and: -EX W 471.5F N 287.4F ON E LN & N 294.4F S 894.4F ON W LN- S 1/2 SW 1/4
LESS RD SEC 3-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-03-300-004



and: E 10A N 20A & S 20A NW 1/4 SE 1/4 & SW 1/4 SE 1/4 & W 20A E 1/2 SE 1/4
LESS 1.25A RD SEC 3-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-03-400-007



and: -EX BEG SE COR THN W 100F N 60F E 99.18F S 60.02F TO POB- & -EX W 20A- E
1/2 SE 1/4 LESS .67A RD SEC 3-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-03-400-008



and: -EX N 33F RD EAS & BEG 33F S NE COR THN S 1288.49F TO SE COR THN W 60F N
1251.52F NW 14.05F W 736.06F N 27F E TO POB- NE 1/4 NE 1/4 & E 13 A NW 1/4 NE
1/4 SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-200-004



and: -EX BEG NW COR OF SEC THN E 1317.6F S 60F W 1246.61F SWLY 15.45F S
2571.89F W60F N 2642.89F TO POB W 1/2 NW 1/4 SEC 11-80-24 GEOPARCEL #
8024-11-101-001



and: -EX E 60F RD- SE 1/4 NE 1/4 SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-200-005



and: W 1/2 NE 1/4 -EX E 13 A NW 1/4 NE 1/4- LESS .75 A RD SEC 10-80-24
GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-200-001



and: -EX BEG NE COR THN S 2568.94F TO N ROW LN NW 18TH ST W 60F N 2568.77F E
60.01F TO POB- NE 1/4 SE 1/4 SEC 10-80-24 GEOPARCEL # 8024-10-400-010



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Northern
Interceptor Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service
connection shall pay a connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby
established, as follows: 



 



Effective Date
 

Connection Fee
(per acre—1 acre minimum)



Prior to and through December 31, 2009
 
$ 2,470


January 1, 2010
 
$ 2,608


January 1, 2011
 
$ 2,746


January 1, 2012
 
$ 2,884


January 1, 2013
 
$ 3,022


January 1, 2014
 
$ 3,160


January 1, 2015
 
$ 3,298


January 1, 2016
 
$ 3,436


January 1, 2017
 
$ 3,574


January 1, 2018 and thereafter
 
$ 3,712




 




(Ord. 1635 – Apr. 09 Supp.)




11.   Fourmile Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   Fourmile Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



OUTLOT Z ASHLAND RIDGE PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-11-176-002)



and: -EX PRAIRIE RIDGE CHURCH PLAT 1 & BEG NE COR THN S 659.3F W 35F N
206.38F NW 120.1F N 262.93F NW 14.13F W 1267.49F N 60F E 1317.52F TO POB-
PARCEL E BK 10143 PG 828 N 1/2 NE 1/4 NW 1/4 SEC 11-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8024-11-126-026)



and: PARCEL H BK 11793 PG 908 BEG 60.02F N OF SW COR THN N 400.13F E 582.18F
S 400.13F W 582.18F TO POB SW 1/4 SW 1/4 SEC 2-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8024-02-300-011)



and: PARCEL G BK 11793 PG 908 BEG 460.15F N OF SW COR THN N 860.9F E 742.61F
S 1260.69F TO N ROW LN OF NW 36TH ST W 160.28F N 400.13F W 582.18F TO POB SW
1/4 SW 1/4 SEC 2-80-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-02-300-010)



and: -EX JOHNSON HOMESTEAD PLAT 1- & -EX BEG SW COR THN N 415.03F E 36.62F SE
81.34F S 263.82F SE 14.29F E 629.99F S 60.01F W 680F TO POB- PARCEL C BK 7797
PG 457 S 415F W 680F S ½ SE 1/4 SEC 2-80-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-02-400-013)



and: -EX AUTUMN CREST PLAT 1- & -EX BEG 415.03F N OF S 1/4 COR THN N 898.94F
E 35.01F S 860.34F SE 38.76F W 36.62F TO POB- & -EX BEG SE COR THN W 1954.87F
N 60.01F E 1955.41F S60F TO POB- PARCEL A BK 7797 PG 457 BEG SE COR THN
W1954.88F N 415F W 680F TO W LN N 898.95F TO NW COR E 1636.72F SELY 794.3F E
345F TO E LN S 970.45F TO POB S 1/2 SE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 2-80-24  (GEOPARCEL #
8024-02-400-010)



and: LOT 1 JOHNSON ESTATES PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-02-476-004)



and: LOT 2 JOHNSON ESTATES PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-02-476-003)



and: LOT 3 JOHNSON ESTATES PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-02-476-002)



and: -EX MEMORIAL SERVICES OF IOWA PLAT 1- PARCEL I BOOK 12412 PAGE 55 N 1/2
SE 1/4 SEC 2-80-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-02-400-015)



and: PARCEL J PAGE 12412 PAGE 55 N 1/2 SE 1/4 SEC 2-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8024-02-400-011)



and: -EX COM SW COR SEC 1 THN N 60F E 60F TO POB N 40.84F SELY 39.11F E
127.41F SELY 125.28F E 196.88F S7.5F W 474.02F TO POB- & -EX THE WOODLAND
RESERVE PLAT 5- PARCELS Q & R BK 10200 PG 790 BEG 60F E & 60F N OF SW COR THN
N 1255.82F E 1041F S 1255.65F W 1041F TO POB SW 1/4 SEC 01-80-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8024-01-351-002)



and: OUTLOT B THE WOODLAND RESERVE PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-376-005)



and: OUTLOT C THE WOODLAND RESERVE PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-376-004)



and: OUTLOT D THE WOODLAND RESERVE PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-376-003)



and: -EX THE WOODLAND RESERVE PLTS 1 & 5- PARCEL J BOOK 7822 PAGE 696 BEG
1315.37F N OF SE COR THN W 2555.02F N 663.42F E 2561.55F TO E LN S 663.41F TO
POB SW 1/4 SEC 1-80-24  (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-302-010)



and: -EX THE WOODLAND RESERVE PLATS 1 & 5 & PARCELS AA & BB BOOK 11867 PAGE
349- PARCEL K BOOK 7822 PAGE 696 BEG 1978.78F N OF SE COR THN W 2561.55F N
661.72F TO N LN E 2568.06F TO NE COR S 661.72F TO POB SW 1/4 SEC 1-80-24
(GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-302-016)



and: OUTLOT X THE WOODLAND RESERVE PLAT 7 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-301-005)



and: OUTLOT A NORTH PRAIRIE BEND PLAT 3 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-102-022)



and: OUTLOT B NORTH PRAIRIE BEND PLAT 3 (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-104-008)



and: OUTLOT X ROLLING PRAIRIE ESTATES (GEOPARCEL # 8024-01-101-001)



and: PARCEL C BK 13599 PG 404 BEG 803.77F ELY OF NW COR THN E 733.64F ALNG N
LN TO E LN W 6A SE 1/4 SW 1/4 THN S 1253.02F TO N ROW LN NE 118TH AV W
733.64F ALNG ROW LN N 1251.03F TO POB SW 1/4 SW 1/4 & W 6A SE 1/4 SW 1/4 SEC
36-81-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8124-36-300-005)



and: -EX RD BEG S 1/4 COR THN N 90F W487F N 60F W 600F S 80F W TO W LN S TO S
LN E TO POB- S 19A E 68A SW 1/4 SEC 36-81-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8124-36-300-007)



and: -EX N 16A- & -EX S 19A- E 68A SW 1/4 SEC 36-81-24 (GEOPARCEL #
8124-36-300-009)



and: N 16A E 68A SW 1/4 SEC 36-81-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8124-36-300-008)



and: SW 1/4 SE 1/4 LESS 1 A RD SEC 36-81-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8124-36-400-002)



and: SE 1/4 SE 1/4 LESS 2 A RD SEC 36-81-24 (GEOPARCEL # 8124-36-400-003)



and: OUTLOT X OTTER CREEK REDEVELOPMENT PLAT 2 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-06-101-002)



and: OUTLOT Y OTTER CREEK REDEVELOPMENT PLAT 2 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-06-155-001)



and: OUTLOT Z OTTER CREEK REDEVELOPMENT PLAT 2 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-06-156-002)



and: OUTLOT W OTTER CREEK REDEVELOPMENT PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL # 8023-06-326-001)



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Fourmile Creek
Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall
pay a connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established, as follows:



 



Effective Date
 
Connection Fee
(per acre-1 acre minimum)


Prior to and through December 31, 2011
 
$2,400


January 1, 2012
 
$2,520


January 1, 2013
 
$2,640


January 1, 2014
 
$2,760


January 1, 2015
 
$2,880


January 1, 2016
 
$3,000


January 1, 2017
 
$3,120


January 1, 2018
 
$3,240


January 1, 2019
 
$3,360


January 1, 2020 and thereafter
 
$3,480




 




(Ord. 1703 - Oct. 11 Supp.)




12.   Rock Creek Laterals Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   Rock Creek Laterals Sewer Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



Lots 1 through 4, Golf View Acres Plat 1; and



Lots 10 through 14, Golf View Acres Plat 3; and



Lot 3, and Lots 7 through 35, all in Golf View Acres Plat 4; and



BEG SW COR THN NW 40F W 27F TO PT ON SW LN SE 66 F TO POB LOT 5 & ALL LOT 6
GOLF VIEW ACRES PLAT 4 (Geoparcel 8024-21-201-006); and



Lots 7 through 24, all in Golf View Acres Plat 5; and



N 1/2 NE 1/4 NE 1/4, LESS .38 A Road, SEC 21-80-24; and



Lots 1 through 6, Country Club Court Plat 1; and



Lots 1 through 20, and Lots 23 through 44, all in Country Club Court Plat 2;
and



-EX BEG SW COR THN NELY 20.47F NWLY 34.46F S TO POB - LOT 21 COUNTRY CLUB
COURT PLT 2 (Geoparcel 8024-21-426-002); and



Lots 1 through 12, Country Club Court Plat 3; and



Lots 1 through 5, and Outlots A through E, all in Country Club Court Plat 4;
and



Lots 1 through 22, Country Club Court Plat 5; and



-EX E470F S698F & E 270F N 720F- E 90A S 120A NE 1/4 LESS .42A RD SEC
21-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-21-276-001); and



ALL LT 1 & -EX BEG 886.09F N OF SW COR LT 7 THN SELY 501.72F S 105.59F NW
535.83F N 8.03F TO POB- W 467F & E 28F W 495F N 360F LTS 6 & 7 N OF HWY 60 OP
W 1/2 SE 1/4 SEC 21-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-21-401-017); and



E2A N 145F NE 1/4 SE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 21-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-21-426-014); and



-EX RD- S 178F N 323F E 601F NE 1/4 SE 1/4 SEC 21-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-21-426-015); and



-EX RD- N 158.5F S 634F N 957F E 601F NE 1/4 SE 1/4 SEC 21-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-21-426-016); and



Lots 1, 2, 4, 5 and B, all in Nervig Estates; and



LOTS 1 THROUGH 20, AND LOT A, ALL IN ROLLING HILL; and



-EX E 223.1F N 530F- TT PRT LT 27 N & W OF LN BEG SW COR LT 11 THN W 140F
SWLY PT 176F SELY SW COR LT 27 ROLLING HILL (Geoparcel 8024-21-451-002); and



E 223.1 F N 530 F LOT 27 ROLLING HILL (Geoparcel 8024-21-451-003); and



-EX E 28F W 495F N 360F- & -EX W 467F- & -EX BEG 878.06F N & 535.83F SE OF SW
COR LT 7 THN N37.87F SE 76.8F S37.87F NW 76.8F TO POB- LTS 6 & 7 N OF HWY 60
OP W 1/2 SE 1/4 SEC 21-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-21-451-005); and



-EX N 140F W 525F- & -EX N 200F E OF W 525F- THT PRT S 3/4 NW 1/4 LYG NWLY &
E OF EXISTING RDS SEC 22-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-22-103-004); and



LOT 1 IRVINEDALE WATER TOWER PLAT 1; and



IREG PC BEG AT PT 33F N & 277F W OF SE COR THN N 778F E TO HWY 415 S 365.2F W
117F S 413F W 60F TO BEG N 1/2 NE 1/4 SEC 28-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-28-226-001); and



COM 277F W & 811F N OF SE COR THN E TO HWY 415 S 365.2F TO BEG THN W 117F S
413F E TO HWY 415 NLY TO POB N 1/2 NE 1/4 SUBJ TO MAINTENANCE EAS SEC
28-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-28-226-002); and



E 110F LOT 2 AND ALL OF LOTS 4 THROUGH 6, BRAGDON; and



LOTS 1 THROUGH 3, FELDMAN MANOR



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Rock Creek Laterals
Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established at $7,000 per
connection.




(Ord. 1712 - Jan. 12 Supp.)




(Chapter 93 Renumbered as Chapter 94 – Ord. 1719 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



13.   SE Delaware Lateral Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   SE Delaware Lateral Sewer Connection District 1 means and
includes only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



BEG 304.98F N & 50F E OF SW COR THN E 414.01F N 281.8F E 232.16F SW 208.06F S
286.9F SW 567.25F N 226.42F TO POB SW 1/4 NW FRL 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 (GEOPARCEL #
7923-06-100-024)



AND:  -EX W OF LN BEG 454.78F N & 112.46F ELY OF SW COR THN S 149.8F TO S
LN- N 132F E 133.4F W 463.4F & S 150F N 282F W 463.4F S 19.98A W 31A S 62.99A
NW FRL 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 (GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-100-017)



AND:  COM SW COR THN N 454.78F E 50F TO E ROW LN SE DELAWARE AV & POB THN E
62.46F S 149.8F W 62.46F TO E ROW LN N 149.8F TO POB RD EAS SW 1/4 NW FRL 1/4
SEC 6-79-23 (GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-610-007)



AND:  N 8 RDS W 20 RDS OF S 19.98 A W 31 A S 62.99 A LESS RD -EX S 1 A RD-
NW FRL 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 (GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-100-005)



AND:  -EX COM W 1/4 COR OF SEC THN E 1246.93F ALNG S LN TO CONSTRUCTION CNT
LN I-35 NE 596.6F NW 137F TO WLY ROW LN I-35 TO POB THN W 500.78F NELY
776.84F E 182.38F TO WLY ROW LN I-35 SW 666.44F TO POB- S 1/2 OF FOLLOWING
PARCEL W 32.94A S 62.94A N 125.88A & N 11.02A W 31A S 62.99A NW FRL 1/4 LESS
RD SEC 6-79-23 (GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-100-015)



AND:  -EX COM NW COR OF SEC THN S 1611.35F ALNG W LN E 1109.48F TO POB THN
NE 440.32F NE 249.82F E 42.03F TO PRESENT WLY ROW LN I-35 S 403.31F ALNG WLY
ROW LN SWLY 258.55F W 182.38F TO POB- & -EX W 50F- N 1/2 W 32.94A S 62.94A N
125.88A & N 11.02A W 31A S 62.99A NW FRL 1/4 SEC 6-79-23 (GEOPARCEL #
7923-06-100-016)



AND:  -EX W 50F- S 310F N 951.7F W 370F NW 1/4 NW FRL 1/4 SEC 6-79-23
(GEOPARCEL # 7923-06-100-002)



AND: LOT 1 OF CHAPMAN BROTHERS FARM PLAT 1 (GEOPARCEL #7924-01-226-001)



AND: NE FRL 1/4 LESS RR & RD SEC 1-79-24 (GEOPARCEL #7924-01-200-06) - EX
THAT PART LYING SOUTH AND WEST OF THE CREEK BISECTING THE NE FRL 1/4 - AND
-EX FRIENDLY HILLS -



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the SE Delaware Avenue
Lateral Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection
shall pay a connection fee.  Lateral sewer connection fees are hereby
established as follows:



 




Effective Date

 

Connection Fee
(per acre—1 acre minimum)




Prior to and through December 31, 2012

 

$   1,392




January 1, 2013

 

$   1,434




January 1, 2014

 

$   1,476




January 1, 2015

 

$   1,519




January 1, 2016

 

$   1,561




January 1, 2017

 

$   1,603




January 1, 2018

 

$   1,645




January 1, 2019

 

$   1,687




January 1, 2020

 

$   1,730




January 1, 2021 and thereafter

 

$   1,772





 



   C   Lateral sewer connection fees as established herein are in
addition to sanitary sewer connection fees established by and payable to 
Polk County.



(Ord. 1734 – Oct. 12 Supp.)



14.   Rock Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 2. 



   A.   Rock Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 2 means and includes
only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



LOTS 1 THROUGH 5 AND LOT A, MCNAMEE PLACE; AND

-EX PARCEL L BK 14406 PG 79 BEG SW CORNER N 1/2 NE 1/4 THN N 1318.17F E
463.42F S 668.85F SE 262.03F SE 106F SW 375.66F S 33F W 572.84F TO POB- & -EX
BEG 277 W OF SE COR THN W ALNG S LN 537.12F N 811F E 537.12F S 811F TO POB- &
-EX BEG 33F N & 277F W OF SE COR THN N 778F E TO HWY 415 SLY ALNG W LN HWY
415 TO N LN NW 84TH ST W TO POB & PARCEL C BK 7415 PG 291 BEG 620F E OF SW
COR THN N 33F E 30F S 33F W 80F TO POB- N 1/2 NE 1/4 LESS 4.643A RD SEC
28-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-28-201-006); and



-EX S 33F RD EAS- BEG 277 W OF SE COR THN W ALNG S LN 537.12F N 811F E
537.12F S 811F TO POB N 1/2 NE 1/4 SEC 28-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-28-226-003);
and



LOTS 1, 2 AND E, J C RITTGERS WOODED ACRES (Geoparcel 8024-21-178-003); and



- EX CAMDEN WOODS SOUTH PLAT 1- LOTS 3 & 4, J C RITTGERS WOODED ACRES; and



LT 2 & S 1/2 LT 3 GOLF VIEW ACRES PLT 2 (Geoparcel 8024-16-477-006); and



-EX S 1/2 & N 75F E 250F- LT 3 & -EX S 93F E 250F- LT 4 GOLF VIEW ACRES PLT 2
(Geoparcel 8024-16-477-023); and



Lots 5 through 8, GOLF VIEW ACRES PLT 2



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Rock Creek Trunk
Sewer Connection District 2 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established as follows:



 




Effective Date

 

Connection Fee
(per acre-1 acre minimum)




Prior to and through December 31, 2013

 

$   1,768




January 1, 2014

 

$   1,821




January 1, 2015

 

$   1,874




January 1, 2016

 

$   1,927




January 1, 2017

 

$   1,980




January 1, 2018

 

$   2,033




January 1, 2019

 

$   2,086




January 1, 2020

 

$   2,139




January 1, 2021

 

$   2,192




January 1, 2022 and thereafter

 

$   2,245





 



(Ord. 1749 - Apr. 13 Supp.)



15.   Rock Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 3.



   A.   Rock Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 3 means and includes
only the following described real estate:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



W 1/2 SW 1/4 -EX N 719 FT- LESS 2.5 A RD SEC 4-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-04-300-002); and



S 1/2 SW 1/4 LESS 4 A RD SEC 5-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-05-300-003); and



ALL SE 1/4 LYING W OF CNW RY R O W LESS 4 A RD SEC 5-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-05-400-001); and



ALL SE 1/4 -EX N 719 F- LYING E OF CNW RY ROW SEC 5-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-05-400-003); and



N 1/2 NW 1/4 LESS 3 A RD SEC 8-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-08-100-001); and



W 1/2 NE 1/4 LESS 1 A RD SEC 8-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-08-200-001); and



NW 1/4 NE 1/4 NE 1/4 LESS .50A RD SEC 8-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-08-200-002); and



N 1/2 E 1/2 NE 1/4 NE1/4 LESS .5A RD & UP RR ROW SEC 8-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-08-200-003); and



SW 1/4 NE 1/4 NE 1/4 & NW 1/4 SE 1/4 NE 1/4 SEC 8-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-08-200-004); and



SE 1/4 NE 1/4 NE 1/4 & NE 1/4 SE 1/4 NE 1/4 SEC 8-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-08-200-005); and



- EX RY ROW & EX RD- NW 1/4 SEC 9-80-24 (Geoparcels 8024-09-100-003,
8024-09-100-001, 8024-09-100-002, 8024-09-100-005 and 8024-09-100-004); and



SW 1/4 NE 1/4 SEC 9-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-09-200-002); and



NW 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 9-80-24 (Geoparcels 8024-09-300-001 and
8024-09-300-002); and



N 1/2 NE 1/4 SW 1/4 S OF UP RR LESS .5A RD EAS SEC 9-80-24 (Geoparcel
8024-09-300-005); and



S 1/2 NE 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS .31A RD SEC 9-80-24 (Geoparcels 8024-09-300-006,
8024-09-300-007 and 8024-09-300-008); and



N 1/2 NE 1/4 SW 1/4 N OF UP RR SEC 9-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-09-300-004); and



SE 1/4 SW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 9-80-24 (Geoparcels 8024-09-300-014 and
8024-09-300-012); and



-EX S 353F N 936.2F E 288F- SE 1/4 N OF UP RR ROW LESS RD SEC 9-80-24
(Geoparcel 8024-09-400-001); and



-EX S 60F W 356.48F- & -EX PARCEL A BK 11144 PG 750 CORR AFF BK 11555 PG 364
BEG SE COR THN W 1976.35F N 50F NELY 39.27F N 25F NWLY 176.54F W 138.07F N
156.65F NE 185.85F NE 225.54F N 1069.69F TO S ROW LN ABND UP RR SE 1965.1F TO
E LN OF SEC S 1178.94F TO POB- SE 1/4 LYG S OF ABND UP RR ROW LESS RD SEC
9-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-09-400-006); and



-EX BEG NE CORNER W 1/2 NW 1/4 SEC 16 THN S 1570.96F W 40.01F N 1496.1F NWLY
39.53F W 1249.4F N 50F E 1314.69F TO POB ROAD & ROAD EASM- & -EX PAR R & S BK
13674 PG 488- W 1/2 NW 1/4 SEC 16-80-24 (Geoparcel  8024-16-100-011);  and



-EX N 50F W 1000F & N 70F E 312.52F- NE 1/4 NW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 16-80-24
(Geoparcel 8024-16-100-003); and



-EX N 70F & HIDDEN CREEK PLT 3- & -EX PARCEL T BK 14263 PG 490 BEG NE COR LT
2 HIDDEN CREEK PLT 3 THN NE 67.4F NW 196.17F NW 215F N182.88F TO S LN NW 18TH
ST E 187.4F S 657.08F TO N LN LT 3 HIDDEN CREEK PLT 3 W 94.16F TO NW COR LT 3
NE 7.74F TO POB- NW 1/4 NE 1/4 SEC 16-80-24 (Geoparcel 8024-16-201-003)



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Rock Creek Trunk
Sewer Connection District 3 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established as follows:



 




Effective Date

 

Connection Fee
(per acre-1 acre minimum)



Prior to and through December 31, 2013
 

$   3,150



January 1, 2014
 

$   3,245



January 1, 2015
 

$   3,340



January 1, 2016
 

$   3,435



January 1, 2017
 

$   3,530



January 1, 2018
 

$   3,625



January 1, 2019
 

$   3,720



January 1, 2020
 

$   3,815



January 1, 2021
 

$   3,910



January 1, 2022 and thereafter
 

$   4,005





 



(Ord. 1752 - Apr. 13 Supp.)



16.   Crosswinds Business Park Lateral Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   Rock Creek Trunk Crosswinds Business Park Lateral Sewer
Connection District 1 means and includes only the portions of the following
described real estate shown on the Crosswinds Business Park Neighborhood Plan
#1 dated January 13, 2012:



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



N 1/2 NE 1/4 LYING W OF SE CROSSWINDS DR LESS RD SEC 7-79-23 (Geoparcel
7923-07-200-006); and



-EX E 478.5F- N 1/2 NE 1/4 LYING E OF SE CROSSWINDS DR LESS RD SUBJ TO DRAIN
EAS SEC 7-79-23 (Geoparcel 7923-07-200-007); and



S & W OF LN COM E 1/4 COR SEC 7 THN S 171.2F S 247.89F TO BEG THN W 60F TO
EXISTING W RD ROW LN N 25.89F NW 70.6F WLY 7.42F ALNG CRV W 571.89F NW
285.63F W 427.09F WLY 121.83F ALNG CRV SW 61.24F SLY 19.46F ALNG CRV SE 10F
SW 81.04F NLY 32.77F ALNG CRV NW 64.1F WLY 19.04F ALNG CRV WLY 9.81F ALNG CRV
NW 80.5F ELY 31.24F ALNG CRV NE 64.35F NLY 17.66F ALNG CRV NW 1298.41F NLY
263.87F ALNG CRV TO N LN SW 1/4 NE 1/4 BNG NE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-79-23
(Geoparcel 7923-07-400-004); and



N & E OF A LN COM E 1/4 COR SEC 7 THN S 171.2F TO BEG THN W 60F TO EXISTING W
RD ROW LN SW 65.78F SWLY 91.26F ALNG CRV WLY 1216.29F SWLY 103.8F ALNG CRV
SWLY 7.44F ALNG CRV NW 67.92F NWLY 92.33F ALNG CRV NW 1220.48F NELY 250.75F
ALNG CRV TO N LN SW 1/4 NE 1/4 BNG NE 1/4 LESS RD SEC 7-79-23 (Geoparcel
7923-07-200-008); and



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Crosswinds Business
Park Lateral Sewer Connection District 1 shall pay a sewer connection fee in
the amount of $1,751 per acre to the City at the time of site plan
approval.  Such fee is in addition to the fees set forth in Section 94.06,
subsection 8. 



(Ord. 1755 - Apr. 13 Supp.)



17.   Deer Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1.



   A.   Deer Creek Trunk Sewer Connection District 1 means and includes
only the following described real estate and as shown on an exhibit on file
in the office of the Director of Public Works:



NW 1/4 LESS 2 A RD SEC 17-80-23 (Geoparcel # 8023-17-100-001); and



N 30 A SW 1/4 SEC 17-80-23 (Geoparcel # 8023-17-300-001); and



W 700F N 175F S 2146.9F SW 1/4 SEC 17-80-23 (Geoparcel # 8023-17-300-004); and



-EX W 700F N 175F- BEG SW COR THN N 2146.9F E 1522F S 443F W 1015.6F S 411.6F
W 208.7F S1302.1F W320.4F TO POB SW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 17-80-23 (Geoparcel #
8023-17-300-005); and



-EX BEG SW COR THN N 2146.9F E 1522F S 443F W1015.6F S411.6F W208.7F S1302.1F
W320.4F TO POB- S 130A SW 1/4 LESS RD SEC 17-80-23 (Geoparcel #
8023-17-300-003)



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Deer Creek Trunk
Sewer Connection District 1 desiring to make a service connection shall pay a
connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby established as follows:



 


Effective Date

 

Sewer Connection Fee (per acre-1 acre minimum)






Prior to and through December 31, 2014

 

$3,055




January 1, 2015

 

$3,226




January 1, 2016

 

$3,397




January 1, 2017

 

$3,568




January 1, 2018

 

$3,739




January 1, 2019

 

$3,910




January 1, 2020

 

$4,081




January 1, 2021

 

$4,252




January 1, 2022

 

$4,423




January 1, 2023 and thereafter

 

$4,594










(Ord. 1814 – July 14 Supp.)



18.   Northern Interceptor Trunk Sewer Connection District 2.



   A.   Northern Interceptor Trunk Sewer Connection District 2 means
and includes only the following described real estate and as shown on an
exhibit on file in the office of the Director of Public Works:



W ½ NE FRL ¼ LESS 1.52 A RD SEC 3-80-24 (Geoparcel # 8024-03-200-001); and



-EX E 10A N 20A & S 20A- NW ¼ SE ¼ SEC 3-80-24 (Geoparcel #
8024-03-400-006); and



NW FRL ¼ LESS 6.43 A RD SEC 3-80-24 (Geoparcel # 8024-03-100-001); and



-EX W 172F S 400F- N ½ SW ¼ LESS 1.06A RD SEC 3-80-24 (Geoparcel #
8024-03-300-005); and



W 172F S 400F N ½ SW ¼ LESS .46A RD SEC 3-80-24 (Geoparcel #
8024-03-300-006)



   B.   The owner of any parcel included within the Northern
Interceptor Trunk Sewer Connection District 2 desiring to make a service
connection shall pay a connection fee.  Connection fees are hereby
established as follows:



 




Effective Date

 

Sewer Connection Fee
(per acre-1 acre minimum)



Prior to and through December 31, 2016
 

$3,228



January 1, 2017
 

$3,339



January 1, 2018
 

$3,450



January 1, 2019
 

$3,561



January 1, 2020
 

$3,672



January 1, 2021
 

$3,783



January 1, 2022
 

$3,894



January 1, 2023
 

$4,005



January 1, 2024
 

$4,116



January 1, 2025 and thereafter
 

$4,227





 




(Ord. 1879 - Jul. 16 Supp.)




CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM



 

95.01  Purpose
 
95.06  Service Outside the City


95.02  Definitions
 
95.07  Right of Entry


95.03  Administrator
 
95.08  Use of Easements


95.04  Prohibited Acts
 
95.09  Special Penalties


95.05  Sewer Connection Required
 



 



95.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.



95.02  DEFINITIONS.



Definitions are given in this section and in Section 100.01 for use in these
chapters:



1.   “Administrator” means the Administrator of the sewer utility of
the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or representative. 



2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping
of a building drainage system which receives the discharge from waste and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning three (3) feet outside the inner face of the
building wall.



3.   “Building sewer” or “lateral sewer” means that part of the
horizontal piping from the building drain to its connection with the public
sewer or the primary treatment portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system conveying the drainage of one building site.



4.   “City sanitary sewer system” or “sanitary sewer system” means
the local outfall sewers, trunk sewers, pumping stations, force mains and
wastewater equalization basins, and all other structures, devices and
appliances appurtenant thereto, which are used for collecting, conveying or
storing wastewater and which serve and are owned, operated and maintained by
the City or by a sanitary district serving the City.



5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of
domestic waste which is directly or indirectly discharged into the public
sewer system.



6.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to
inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections
to the public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged
therefrom. 



7.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater. 



8.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all
equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage,
treatment, and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or
other facilities serving the equivalent of fifteen persons (1500 gpd) or less.



9.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.



10.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.



11.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer which carries sewage and to which
storm, surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted. 



12.   “Septage” is the liquid and solid material pumped from a septic
tank, cesspool, or other primary treatment source.



13.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present. 



14.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs,
either continuously or intermittently.



95.03  ADMINISTRATOR.



The Administrator shall exercise the following powers and duties:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   Operation and Maintenance.  Operate and maintain the City sewage
system.



2.   Inspection and Tests.  Conduct necessary inspections and tests to
assure compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters. 



95.04  PROHIBITED ACTS.



No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:



1.   Damage Sewer System.  Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance
or equipment which is a part of the sewer system.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



2.   Surface Run-off or Groundwater.  Connect a roof downspout, sump
pump, exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface
run-off or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. 



3.   Manholes.  Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Administrator. 



4.   Objectionable Wastes.  Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



5.   Septic Tanks.  Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters. 



6.   Untreated Discharge.  Discharge to any natural outlet within the
City, or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage or
wastewater, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of these chapters. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



95.05  SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.



The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located,
or may in the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are
hereby required to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet
facilities therein and a building sewer connecting such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with
the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be
completed within sixty (60) days after date of official notice from the City
to do so provided that said public sewer is located within two hundred (200)
feet of the property line of such owner and is of such design as to receive
and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to it.  Billing for
sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice to connect to
the public sewer.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



(IAC, 567-69.1[3])



95.06  SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.



The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])



95.07  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



The Administrator and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary
Sewer chapters.  The Administrator or representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.



95.08  USE OF EASEMENTS.



The Administrator and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage system lying
within said easement.  All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.



95.09  SPECIAL PENALTIES.



The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters: 



1.   Notice of Violation.  Any person found to be violating any provision
of these chapters except subsections 1, 3 and 4 of Section 95.04, shall be
served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof.  The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations. 



2.   Continuing Violations.  Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection 1 hereof shall be in
violation of this Code of Ordinances.  Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.



3.   Liability Imposed.  Any person violating any of the provisions of
these chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or
damage occasioned the City by reason of such violation. 



CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS



 

96.01  Permit
 
96.05  Sewer Tap


96.02  Permit Fee
 
96.06  Inspection Required


96.03  Plumber Required
 
96.07  Property Owner’s Responsibility


96.04  Connection Requirements
 
96.08  Abatement of Violations



 



96.01  PERMIT.



No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City.  The application for the
permit shall set forth the location and description of the property to be
connected with the sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be
used, and shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent.  The permit shall require the owner to
complete construction and connection of the building sewer to the public
sewer within sixty (60) days after the issuance of the permit, except that
when a property owner makes sufficient showing that due to conditions beyond
the owner’s control or peculiar hardship, such time period is inequitable
or unfair, an extension of time within which to comply with the provisions
herein may be granted.  Any sewer connection permit may be revoked at any
time for a violation of these chapters.



96.02  PERMIT FEE.



The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in the amount of $200.00
for single-family dwellings (or $200.00 for the first unit of a
multiple-family dwelling, $100.00 for the second unit and $50.00 for each
additional unit in one building), or $200.00 for each commercial or
industrial customer to the City to cover the cost of issuing the permit and
supervising, regulating, and inspecting the work, and to reimburse the City
for costs borne by the City in making sewer service available to the property
served.



96.03  PLUMBER REQUIRED.



All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
shall be made by a licensed plumber, and a plumber’s license may be
suspended or revoked for violation of any of the provisions of these Sanitary
Sewer chapters.



96.04  CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.



The installation of the building sewer and its connection to the public sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the International Plumbing Code, the
laws of the State and other applicable rules and regulations of the City.



96.05  SEWER TAP.



Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.  If no
properly located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be
installed at the location specified by the Administrator.  The public sewer
shall be tapped with a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type
of public sewer shall be glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel
clamps to the sewer.  At no time shall a building sewer be constructed so as
to enter a manhole unless special written permission is received from the
Administrator and in accordance with the Administrator’s direction if such
connection is approved.



96.06  INSPECTION REQUIRED.



No building sewer shall be covered, concealed, or put into use until it has
been tested, inspected and accepted as prescribed in the International
Plumbing Code.



96.07  PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.



All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.  The owner
shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.



96.08  ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.



Building sewers, whether located upon the private property of any owner or in
the public right-of-way, which are constructed or maintained in violation of
any of the requirements of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance and the
same shall be abated by the City in the manner provided for the abatement of
nuisances.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])



CHAPTER 97
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS



 

97.01  When Prohibited
 
97.05  Discharge Restrictions


97.02  When Required
 
97.06  Maintenance of System


97.03  Compliance with Regulations
 
97.07  Systems Abandoned


97.04  Permit Required
 
97.08  Disposal of Septage



 



97.01  WHEN PROHIBITED.



Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



97.02  WHEN REQUIRED.



When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed
shall be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.



(IAC, 567-69.1[3])



97.03  COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.



The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.



(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])



97.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.



No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.



97.05  DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.



It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.



(IAC, 567-69.1[3]) 



97.06  MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.



The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.



97.07  SYSTEMS ABANDONED.



At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



97.08  DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.



No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.



CHAPTER 98
SEWER USE CHARGE



 

98.01  Purpose
 
98.07  Rates


98.02  Definitions
 
98.08  Rates Outside the City


98.03  Requirements
 
98.09  Billings


98.04  Establishment of Funds
 
98.10  Lien for Nonpayment


98.05  Monthly Sewer User Charges Required
 
98.11  Charge Review


98.06  Quantification of Usage
 
 



 



98.01  PURPOSE. 



The purpose of this chapter is to establish the procedures and regulations to
be followed in the calculation, establishment and collection of charges from
customers so that the City can pay for the operation and maintenance,
including replacement, as herein defined, of the wastewater treatment system
and for the sewer bond debt retirement for financing the sewerage system
improvements.



98.02  DEFINITIONS.



Unless the context indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used in this
chapter are as follows:



1.   “Billing agency” means the City of Ankeny Finance Department or
any other agency designated by the City to maintain utility customer
accounts, read meters, prepare and mail bills or other correspondence, and
account for utility payments.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



2.   “EPA” means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.



3.   “Operation and maintenance” means all expenditures during the
useful life of the wastewater treatment works for materials, labor,
utilities, and other items which are necessary for the management and
maintenance of said treatment facilities to achieve the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.



4.   “Replacement” means expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the wastewater treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such facilities were designed and constructed.  The
term “operation and maintenance” includes replacement.



5.   “Residential customer” means any customer whose lot, parcel of
real estate or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.



6.   “Service availability charge” means a fixed charge imposed on
each separately metered residential, commercial, industrial, or educational
premises which is physically connected to the utility, consisting of the
equivalent meter cost, based on the water meter size, or the size of a
wastewater meter, if installed, plus the billing cost.



7.   “Useful life” means the estimated period during which the
wastewater treatment works will be operated.



8.   “User charge” means that portion of the total wastewater service
charge which is levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works. 



9.   “Wastewater” means the spent water of a community.  From the
standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water
that may be present.  Wastewater is also commonly known as “sanitary
sewage.”



10.   “Wastewater treatment works” means the devices and systems used
for the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
wastewater, domestic wastewater, or liquid industrial wastes.  These include
the collecting lateral, trunk, interceptor and outfall sewer systems,
pumping, power and other equipment and appurtenances, extensions,
improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; elements
essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment
units and clear well facilities; and any works, including site acquisition of
the land, that will be an integral part of the treatment process or used for
ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment; or any other
method or system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treatment,
separating or disposing of municipal waste or industrial waste, including
waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer systems.




(Ord. 1656 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




11.   “Water meter” means a water volume measuring and recording
device, furnished and/or installed by the City or furnished and/or installed
by a user and approved by the City.



98.03  REQUIREMENTS. 



The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay:  (i)
costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement; and (ii)
costs associated with sewer bond retirement for bonds now outstanding
including payments to all sinking, revenue, depreciation, extension and
improvement funds established in the ordinances or resolutions authorizing
such bonds; and (iii) when required, costs associated with sewer bond
retirement of bonds to be issued in the future.  That portion of the total
sewer use charge which is designated for operation and maintenance including
replacement of the treatment works shall be established by this chapter.



98.04  ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS. 



That portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in
Section 98.07 shall be deposited in two separate non-lapsing funds, as
follows:



1.   A fund designated as the “Sewer Fund” for the specific purpose of
defraying operation and maintenance costs, excluding replacement, of the
wastewater treatment works.



2.   A fund designated as the “Sewer Improvement Fund” for the
specific purpose of ensuring replacement needs over the useful life of the
wastewater treatment works.



Deposits in these two funds shall be made at least annually in amounts to be
designated.



98.05    MONTHLY SEWER USER CHARGES REQUIRED. 



Every customer shall pay to the City monthly sewer user fees as hereinafter
provided.  The total monthly charge shall be the sum of the service
availability charge plus the sewer user charge based on actual or average
sewer use figures, as determined in Section 98.06.



98.06    QUANTIFICATION OF USAGE.



1.   Monthly usage figures from which sewer use charges are calculated for
residential customers shall be based on the actual water usage billed during
the months of January, February and March, hereinafter referred to as the
"base," with the remaining nine months of the year (April through December)
being billed at the average monthly water usage for the most recent annual
base period.  In the event water use at a residence varies by fifty-one
percent from the monthly average for the previous calendar year, or, if one
or more months of the base has zero usage, and upon further review is
determined to be non-typical use, the base period shall not be used and the
monthly user's charge shall be based on the previous year's history, or as
established in subsection 3, paragraphs A through F, of this section.




(Ord. 1860 - Oct. 15 Supp.)




2.   Industrial, commercial, and multi-unit residential dwellings with
more than two units shall have their quantitative usage figures based on
metered water used during the billing period.  If a commercial or industrial
customer has a consumptive use of water, or in some other manner uses water
which is not returned to the wastewater collection system, the user charge
for that customer may be based on a wastewater meter or separate water meter
installed and maintained at the customer’s expense and in a manner
acceptable to the City.



3.   In the event a residential customer moves from one dwelling to
another within the City, the City will determine sewer use charges based upon
the "base" period which was applicable to the previous residence, which
charges shall remain in effect until a new "base" period is established,
pursuant to the provisions of subsection 1 of this section.  In the event
that a person who was not previously a customer of the water utility
commences to occupy a separately metered dwelling unit, the sewer use charges
set forth below shall be imposed until a "base" period has been established:



   A.   A dwelling unit that is vacant, or is under construction, shall
have a monthly sewer charge based upon a consumption of 500 gallons;



   B.   A dwelling unit occupied by one person shall have a monthly
sewer charge based upon a consumption of 1,600 gallons;



   C.   A dwelling unit occupied by two persons shall have a monthly
sewer charge based upon a consumption of 3,200 gallons;



   D.   A dwelling unit occupied by three persons shall have a monthly
sewer charge based upon a consumption of 4,300 gallons;



   E.   A dwelling unit occupied by four persons shall have a monthly
sewer charge based upon a consumption of 5,400 gallons;



   F.   A dwelling unit occupied by more than four persons shall have a
monthly sewer charge based upon a consumption of 5,900 gallons.




(Ord. 1860 - Oct. 15 Supp.)




98.07    RATES.



1.   For bills due and payable on or after July 1, 2015, the following
rates will apply.



   A.   Service Availability Charge.  There is imposed for each
billing period, a service availability charge upon each separately metered
residential, commercial, industrial or educational premises, directly or
indirectly served by a connection to the sanitary sewer system based on the
following:



 







Meter Size

 

Meter Equivalency Factor

 

Monthly Equivalent Meter Cost

 

Monthly Billing Cost

 

Monthly SAC Charge




5/8"

 

1

 

$   15.94

 

$   3.24

 

$   19.18




3/4"

 

1.5

 

$   23.91

 

$   3.24

 

$   27.15




1"

 

2.5

 

$   39.85

 

$   3.24

 

$   43.09




1 1/2"

 

5

 

$   79.70

 

$   3.24

 

$   82.94




2"

 

8

 

$   127.52

 

$   3.24

 

$   130.76




3

 

17.5

 

$   278.95

 

$   3.24

 

$   282.19




4

 

50

 

$   797.00

 

$   3.24

 

$   800.24




6

 

100

 

$   1,594.00

 

$   3.24

 

$   1,597.24




8

 

175

 

$   2,789.50

 

$   3.24

 

$   2,792.74





 



   B.   Sewer User Charge.  In addition to the service availability
charge, each customer shall pay a user charge of $3.24 per 1,000 gallons of
water (or wastewater) consumed upon the premises and as measured by the water
(or wastewater) meter in accordance with Section 98.06, for operation,
maintenance and replacement of the system; and an additional $3.84 per 1,000
gallons of water (or wastewater) consumed for debt retirement.



(Ord. 1842 - Apr. 15 Supp.)



2.   Surcharge.  For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the
strength of which is greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in
addition to the normal charge shall be collected.1



3.   Miscellaneous Charges.  Any user who discharges any toxic pollutants
which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge
from the City’s treatment works, or any user who discharges any substances
which singly or by interaction with other substances cause identifiable
increases in the cost of operation, maintenance or replacement of the
treatment works, shall pay for such increased costs.  The charge to each
such user shall be determined by the plant operating personnel and shall be
approved by a resolution of the Council.



1 EDITOR'S NOTE:  See Section 100.18(2) of this Code of Ordinances for
surcharge fees.



98.08  RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.



Sanitary sewer service shall be provided to any customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the rates provided in Section 98.07.  No
such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have signed
a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules and
regulations applying to sanitary sewer service established by the Council.



(Ord. 1720 – Apr. 12 Supp.)



98.09  BILLINGS.



All sewer user charges shall be due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section 92.08 of this Code of Ordinances.  Sewer service may be discontinued
in accordance with the provisions contained in Section 92.09 if the combined
service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained in Section
92.12 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.  Sewer account billing errors that are discovered by the City of
Ankeny shall be rectified according to the provisions contained in Section
92.17 of the Code of Ordinances.



(Ord. 1941 - May 18 Supp.)



98.10  LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT



The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for sewer service charges to the premises. 
Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien
upon the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County
Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.



98.11  CHARGE REVIEW. 



The City shall review the user charge system at least every two years and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance including
replacement, payment of principal and interest, and the bond and interest
reserve fund, and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement costs among
users and user classes.



CHAPTER 99
SEWER CONNECTION DISTRICTS



EDITOR’S NOTE



See Chapter 94 for regulations pertaining to Sewer and Water Connection
Districts.



CHAPTER 100
REGULATION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER



 



100.01  Interpretation and Definitions
 
100.25  Permit Modifications


100.02  Abbreviations
 
100.26  Permit Transfer


100.03  General Adoption
 
100.27  Denial of Permit


100.04  Intent and Construction
 
100.28  Permit Violations


100.05  Purpose and Policy
 
100.29  Periodic Compliance Reports


100.06  Jurisdiction 
 
100.30  Certification and Signatory Requirements


100.07  User Requirements 
 
100.31  Monitoring Facilities


100.08  Discharge Prohibitions
 
100.32  Inspection, Sampling, and Record Keeping Authority


100.09  Local Limits for Specific Pollutants
 
100.33  Confidential Information 


100.10  National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
 
100.34  Appeal of Denial of Confidential Status


100.11  State Requirements
 
100.35  Public Notification of Significant Noncompliance


100.12  Pretreatment
 
100.36  Significant Noncompliance (SNC)


100.13  Dilution Prohibited
 
100.37  Administrative Actions 


100.14  Spill Containment
 
100.38  Actions Authorized 


100.15  Treatment Upsets
 
100.39  Civil Penalties 


100.16  Treatment Bypass
 
100.40  Performance Bonds


100.17  Fees
 
100.41  Revocation of Permit; Termination of Sewer Service


100.18  Classes of Discharge Permit
 
100.42  Reinstatement of Service 


100.19  Permit Requirements
 
100.43  Emergency Disconnection of Service


100.20  Permit Applications; Baseline Monitoring Reports
 
100.44  Elimination of Discharge; Reinstatement


100.21  Categorical Industries; Report on Compliance
 
100.45  Additional Remedies


100.22  Permit Contents
 
100.46  Notices to the WRA, WRA Board, WRA Director and WRA Appeal Committee


100.23  Permit Duration and Renewal
 


100.24  Continuation of Expired Permits
 




 



100.01  INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.



This chapter shall be construed and interpreted to conform to 40 CFR Chapter
I and it is the intent of this chapter that it comply with said Federal
regulations.  For use in this chapter, the following Chapters 101 and 102,
and other chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary Sewer
System, the following terms are defined: 



1.   “Act” or “Clean Water Act” means the 1972 Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, the 1977 Clean Water Act, and the 1987 Water Quality
Act, as amended.



2.   “Approval authority” means the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources.



3.   “Authorized representative” means:



   A.   An executive officer of a corporation;



   B.   A general partner of a partnership;   



   C.   The proprietor of a proprietorship; 



   D.   The conservator, trustee, attorney in fact, receiver or other
person or agent authorized in law and in fact to act on behalf of users which
are not corporations, partnerships, or proprietorships or on behalf of other
entities which must legally act through an agent; 



   E.   Any other authorized representative of A, B, C, or D above if
the authorization specifies either an individual or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager or a position of
equivalent responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company and the written authorization is submitted to the
Director.



   F.   Any other person authorized by law to act on behalf of any
entity. 



4.   “Baseline monitoring report” means the report required by 40 CFR
Part 403.12 (b) (1-7).



5.   “Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)” means the analysis of BOD as
described in EPA Methods.



6.   “Bypass” means the intentional diversion of waste streams from
any portion of an industrial user’s pretreatment facility. 



7.   “Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand (CBOD) means the analysis
of BOD as described in Environmental Protection Agency methods while
inhibiting the nitrogenous oxygen demand.



8.   “Categorical user” means a user subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards (NCPS). 



9.   “Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)” means the measurement of the
susceptibility of a sample to oxidation by a strong chemical oxidant
expressed in mg/l and using Environmental Protection Agency Methods. 



10.   “Combined Waste Stream Formula” means the formula as found in 40
CFR Part 403.6 (e).   



11.   “Composite sample” means a representative sample using a minimum
of three grab sample aliquots obtained over a period of time and mixed using
either a flow proportional or time proportional method.



12.   “Conventional pollutant” means BOD, COD, O&G, suspended solids,
pH, ammonia nitrogen, total kjeldahl nitrogen, and fecal coliform bacteria. 



13.   “Discharge” or “indirect discharge” means the introduction
of treated or untreated wastewater into the POTW.



14.   “Dissolved solids” means the concentration of residue left in an
evaporating dish after evaporation and drying at defined temperatures using
EPA methods or standard methods.



15.   “Domestic user” means a person discharging only domestic
wastewater to the POTW, which wastewater discharges from any building or
parts of a building designed for or occupied by one or more persons as a
single housekeeping unit, including such units within multi-family dwellings
and apartment buildings. 



16.   “Domestic wastewater” means all household-type waste discharged
from places of human habitation including toilet, bath, kitchen, and laundry
wastewater.  Domestic wastewater is further defined as waste which does not
exceed daily maximum limits of 300 mg/l COD, 200 mg/l BOD, 250 mg/l suspended
solids, 100 mg/l oil and grease, 30 mg/l TKN, and 15 mg/l NH 3 -N at a
discharge rate of 100 gallons per capita per day.  This loading is equal to
0.25 pound of COD, 0.17 pound of BOD, 0.20 pound of suspended solids, 0.083
pound of oil and grease, 0.025 pound of TKN and 0.013 pound of NH 3 -N per
capita per day.



17.   “Environmental Protection Agency” or “EPA” means the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.



18.   “EPA methods” means standard procedures for wastewater analysis
approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and prescribed in 40CFR
Part 136 and shall include alternate methods approved by the approval
authority.



19.   “Escherichia coli” or “E. coli” means bacteria that are a
member of the fecal coliform group and whose presence indicates fecal
contamination in water.



20.   “Fat, oil and grease” or “oil and grease” or “FOG” means
those substances which are detectable and measurable using analytical test
procedures established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time. 
All are sometimes referred to herein as “grease” or “greases.”



21.   “Fecal coliform” means bacteria common to the intestinal tracts
of humans and animals whose presence in water is an indication of pollution. 



22.   “Garbage” means solid waste from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the commercial
handling, storage, and sale of produce. 



23.   “Grab sample” means a single aliquot sample collected either
directly or by means of a mechanical device.



24.   “Headworks” means the main wet well at the POTW Treatment Plant
prior to any treatment process.



25.   “Industrial user” means a person other than a domestic user
whose property, building, or premises is a source of wastewater discharge
into the POTW.



26.   “Industrial waste” means the liquid waste from industrial users
as distinct from domestic sewage.



27.   “Interference” means a discharge, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, which both:



   A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and



   B.   Causes a violation of any requirement of the NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any Federal, State
or local regulations or permits.



28.   “Limit” means the maximum allowable discharge of a given
pollutant as in the following definitions:



   A.   “Daily maximum limit” or “daily instantaneous maximum
limit” means the maximum allowable discharge of pollutant as measured at
any time during a calendar day, expressed as either a concentration limit or
a daily mass limit.  It is a violation if the concentration limit on any
single sample taken exceeds that discharge limit in the discharge permit for
the user, or the discharge limits set forth in Section 100.09 of this chapter.



   B.   “Monthly average limit” means the maximum allowable value
for the average of all measurements of a pollutant obtained during one
calendar month.



29.   “National Categorical Pretreatment Standards (NCPS)” or
“Categorical Standards” means any limitations on pollutant discharges to
POTW promulgated by EPA that apply to specified process wastewater of
particular industrial categories.



30.   “National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit”
means a permit issued pursuant to the Act.



31.   “New source” means a source as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(k).



32.   “Nonconventional pollutants” means all pollutants which are not
included in the definition of conventional pollutants.



33.   “NH 3 -N” means the ammonia nitrogen concentration in mg/l as
determined using EPA methods.



34.   "O & M" means Operation and Maintenance.



35.   “Pass through” means a discharge which exits the POTW into water
of the State in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation) or other permit issued by IDNR or EPA.



36.   “Person” means any individual, partnership, co-partnership,
firm, company, association, joint stock company, society, corporation trust,
estate, municipality, governmental entity, group or any other legal entity,
or any legal representatives, agents or assigns.



37.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of
hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.



38.   “Pollution” means the alteration of chemical, physical,
biological, or radiological integrity of water as a result of human activity
or enterprise. 



39.   “POTW Treatment Plant” means that portion of the publicly owned
treatment works which is designed to provide treatment (including recycling
and reclamation) of municipal sewage and industrial waste. 



40.   “Pretreatment” means the reduction, elimination, or alteration
of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW.



41.   “Pretreatment facility” means the equipment used to accomplish
pretreatment. 



42.   “Pretreatment requirements” means any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment standards, imposed on an industrial user.



43.   “Pretreatment standards” means, for any specified pollutant, the
prohibitive discharge standards as set forth in Section 100.08 of this
chapter, the specific limitations on discharge as set forth in Section
100.09, the State of Iowa pretreatment standards or the NCPS, whichever
standard is most stringent.



44.   “Properly shredded garbage” means the waste from the
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a
degree that all particles are carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in the POTW, with no particle greater than one-half inch
in any dimension.



45.   “Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)” means and includes POTW
treatment works as defined by Section 212 of the Act, and which is owned by
the WRA or any participating communities that make up the WRA.  This
definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial waste of a liquid
nature, or that convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant.



46.   “Sampling chamber” or “sampling maintenance hole” means a
device or structure suitable and appropriate to permit sampling and flow
measurement of a wastewater stream to determine compliance with this chapter.



47.   “Severe property damage” means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to a pretreatment facility causing it to become inoperable,
or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably
be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass.  Severe property damage
does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.



48.   “Sewage” means and includes wastewater, as herein defined. 



49.   “Sewage system” means sewers, intercepting sewers, pipes or
conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and all other constructions, devices
and appliances appurtenant thereto used for collecting or conducting sewage
to a point of treatment or ultimate disposal.



50.   “Significant user” means:



   A.   All categorical users;



   B.   All industrial users that:



      (1)   Discharge 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater (excludes sanitary, non-contact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewater);   



      (2)   Contribute a process wastestream which makes up five
percent (5%) or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity
of the POTW; or 



      (3)   Contribute a discharge that has a reasonable potential,
in the opinion of the Director, to adversely affect the POTW treatment plant
by causing interference or pass through.



51.   “Sludge” means the solids separated from the liquids during the
wastewater treatment process.



52.   “Slug” or “slug load” means any discharge of water or
wastewater which in concentration of any pollutant, measured using a grab or
composite sample, is more than five (5.0) times the allowable concentration
as set forth in Sections 100.08 and 100.09 of this chapter or in a user’s
most recent wastewater discharge permit or exceeds a slug concentration level
specified in a wastewater discharge permit.  A discharge with pH outside of
the allowable range by more than one standard unit (S.U.) shall also be
considered a slug.



53.   “Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)” means a
classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual
issued by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and
Budget, most recent edition.



54.   “Standard methods” means the laboratory procedures set forth in
the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Wastewater,
prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Environment Federation.



55.   “Storm sewer” means a sewer which carries storm water, surface
water, and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial waste other than
unpolluted cooling water.



56.   “T” when used as a portion of a chemical name, designates
“total” such as in “cyanide-T” where “T” means “total”
cyanide.



57.   “TKN” means the total kjeldahl nitrogen concentration expressed
in mg/l as determined using EPA methods or standard methods.



58.   “Total metals” means the sum of the suspended and dissolved
concentrations of a metal specified in a wastewater discharge permit or as
specified in Section 100.09 herein.



59.   “Total Suspended Solids (TSS)” shall mean the portion of total
solids retained by a filter using EPA methods or standard methods. 



60.   “Total toxic organics” means the summation of all quantified
values greater than 0.01 milligrams per liter for the toxic organics as
specified in the applicable regulation. 



61.   “Toxic pollutant” means any pollutant or combination of
pollutants listed in 40 CFR Part 403 Appendix B.



62.   “Unpolluted water” means water containing none of the
following:  free or emulsified oil and grease; substances that may impart
taste, odor or color characteristics; volatile, explosive, toxic, or
poisonous substances in suspension or solution; explosive, odorous or
otherwise obnoxious gases.  Such water does not contain more than 25 mg/l of
suspended solids, and not more than 25 mg/l of BOD.



63.   “Upset” means an exceptional incident in which there is
unintentional and temporary noncompliance with pretreatment standards because
of factors beyond the reasonable control of the user.  An upset does not
include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
designed pretreatment facilities, inadequate pretreatment facilities, lack of
preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation.



64.   “User” means a person discharging anything other than domestic
wastewater into the POTW, and includes categorical users as herein defined.



65.   “Waste hauler” means a private contractor licensed by the WRA to
deliver wastewater to the WRF or other locations approved by the WRA
Director, and includes all persons required to have a license under Section
102.02 of this Code of Ordinances.



66.   “Wastewater,” also termed “sewage,” as defined in Federal
law and regulations, means a combination of the liquid and water-carried
waste from residences, commercial buildings, institutions and industrial
establishments, together with such groundwater, surface water, and storm
water as may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed
into or permitted to enter the POTW.



67.   “Wastewater discharge permit” means the document issued to a
user in accordance with the terms of this chapter, which permits such user to
discharge wastewater to the POTW.



68.   “Waters of the State” means all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
water courses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through or border upon the State of Iowa or any
portion thereof.



69.   “WRA” or “Wastewater Reclamation Authority” means the Des
Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority, an entity organized and
existing under Chapters 28E and 28F of the Iowa Code, and established
pursuant to the WRA Agreement.  The term “WRA” means and includes the
representatives of the participating communities on the WRA Board, and the
officers and employees of the WRA.



70.   “WRA Agreement” means the Amended and Restated Agreement for the
Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority, effective as of
July 1, 2004 and any future amendments approved and executed by the WRA and
its participating communities.



71.   “WRA Director” or “Director” means the person designated by
the WRA board, to be responsible for the administration and management of the
WRA system and of the provision of all services outlined in the operating
contract. Unless otherwise indicated in the text, the "Director" means and
includes the person acting as the Director's authorized designee in the
Director's absence in carrying out the Director's duties under this chapter.



72.   “WRA operating contractor” or “operating contractor” means
the city of Des Moines, pursuant to the initial operating contract executed
by the city of Des Moines and the WRA board on and as of July 1, 2004, or
such successor operating contractor as the WRA shall contract with to provide
operation and management services to the WRA.



73.   “WRA participating community” or “WRA participating
communities” means, individually or collectively, depending on context, the
cities of Altoona, Ankeny, Bondurant, Clive, Cumming, Des Moines, Johnston,
Norwalk, Polk City, Pleasant Hill, Waukee and West Des Moines, and Polk
County, Warren County, the Urbandale Sanitary Sewer District, the
Urbandale-Windsor Heights Sanitary District and the Greenfield Plaza/Hills of
Coventry Sanitary District, together with any other cities, counties or
sanitary districts that become participating communities under the provisions
of the WRA Agreement.



74.   “WRA wastewater collection and conveyance system” or “WCCS”
means the WRA sanitary sewer interceptors and extensions to same, detention
basins, equalization basins, storage facilities, pumping stations, force
mains and all related property and improvements. 



75.   “WRA wastewater reclamation facility” or “WRF” means the
wastewater treatment plant located generally at 3000 Vandalia Road, Des
Moines, Iowa, as the same may be expanded or improved in the future, and any
other wastewater treatment plants hereafter acquired or constructed and
operated by the WRA.



76.   “WRA system” means and includes the WRF, the WCCS, satellite
wastewater and CSO treatment facilities hereafter constructed, all real and
personal property of every nature hereafter owned by the WRA and comprising
part of or used as a part of the WRA system, and all appurtenances,
contracts, leases, franchises and other intangibles of the WRA.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



100.02  ABBREVIATIONS.



The following abbreviations have the designated meanings:



 



BETX
 
Benzene, Ethylbenzene, Toluene, and Xylene


BOD
 
Biochemical Oxygen Demand


BMR
 
Baseline Monitoring Report 


C
 
Celsius


CFR
 
Code of Federal Regulations


COD
 
Chemical Oxygen Demand 


EPA
 
Environmental Protection Agency


F
 
Fahrenheit


FOG
 
Fat, oil and grease


GPD
 
Gallons per day


IDNR
 
Iowa Department of Natural Resources


lb/day
 
Pounds per day


MGD
 
Million gallons per day 


mg/1
 
Milligrams per liter 


NCPS
 
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Categorical Standards


NH 3 -N
 
Ammonia Nitrogen


NPDES
 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System


O & G
 
Oil and Grease


POTW
 
Publicly Owned Treatment Works


RCRA
 
Resource Conservation & Recovery Act


SCP
 
Spill Control Plan


SIC
 
Standard Industrial Classification


SNC
 
Significant Noncompliance


TCLP
 
Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure


TFE
 
Trichlorotrifluoroethane


TKN
 
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen 


TOH
 
Total Organic Hydrocarbons


TRC
 
Technical Review Criteria


TSS
 
Total Suspended Solids


TTO
 
Total Toxic Organics


USC
 
United States Code


U.S. EPA
 
United States Environmental Protection Agency


VPH
 
Volatile petroleum hydrocarbons





(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)




100.03  GENERAL ADOPTION.



The provisions of this chapter are enacted to aid in the enforcement of the
pretreatment regulations set forth herein. The City of Ankeny, by enacting
this chapter, designates the WRA and its operating contractor as the
enforcement agency under this chapter for those customers located such that
their wastewater is conveyed to the WRF.  Employees, agents and officers of
the WRA and of its operating contractor, while acting to enforce the
provisions of this chapter for the WRA, are empowered to make such
inspections, issue such orders or permits and take such actions within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Ankeny as are authorized by this chapter.
The WRA and its operating contractor are also authorized to impose and
collect all fees or penalties authorized by this chapter and are also
authorized to directly bill and collect from contributors any penalties,
fees, charges and surcharges. The failure to pay any fee, charge, penalty or
surcharge is a municipal infraction and shall also be grounds to discontinue
sewer service. The enforcement of this chapter in the City of Ankeny is not
dependent upon passage of this or a similar ordinance by other cities or WRA
participating communities.  The City of Ankeny shall retain control over the
use of its local sewers for purposes of capacity allocation and surcharge
prevention.



100.04  INTENT AND CONSTRUCTION.



This chapter seeks to implement provisions of the Act, the General
Pretreatment Regulations found at 40 CFR, Part 403, and the Iowa
Administrative Code, Chapter 567, Sections 62.4 and 62.8.  This chapter is
to be construed and applied in accordance with the Clean Water Act
Amendments, the General Pretreatment Regulations, the Iowa Administrative
Code and the purpose and policy provisions set forth in Section 100.05 herein.



100.05  PURPOSE AND POLICY.



This chapter regulates the use of sanitary sewers, private wastewater
disposal, the installation and connection of building sewers, and the
discharge of water and wastewater into the POTW.  This chapter sets forth
uniform requirements for all users who discharge into the POTW, and the
deposit of wastewater and waste hauled to the WRF or to locations approved by
the WRA Director for disposal and treatment.  The objectives of this chapter
are:



1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that may
interfere with the operation of the system or interfere with sludge
management and disposal;



2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that may pass
through the system inadequately treated and ultimately into receiving water,
the atmosphere, or otherwise be incompatible with the system; 



3.   To protect workers' safety and health and to protect against damage
to the POTW; 



4.   To provide for equitable distribution of treatment and industrial
pretreatment costs resulting from pollutants introduced into the POTW.



100.06  JURISDICTION.



The provisions of this chapter are applicable in their entirety to all users
who contribute wastewater, directly or indirectly, into the POTW, without
regard to whether the physical facilities of such users are situated within
or outside the corporate limits of the City. 



100.07  USER REQUIREMENTS.



The following requirements apply to all users of the POTW:



1.   All users shall promptly notify the WRA Director in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in their
discharge.



2.   New or increased contributions of pollutants or changes in the nature
of pollutant discharged to the POTW shall require prior approval by the WRA
Director.



3.   Industrial users shall notify the WRA Director, the EPA Regional
Waste Management Division Director, and State hazardous waste authorities in
writing of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. The
notification shall comply with the requirements set forth in 40 CFR 403.12(p).



4.   Discharge of any pollutants without the notice and approval required
by this chapter is prohibited. Upon the receipt of notice required by this
chapter the WRA Director shall within 180 days or less approve the discharge
if the Director finds the proposed discharge meets applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements and would not cause the WRA to violate its NPDES
permit. The Director shall deny permission for the discharge if he or she
finds applicable pretreatment standards and requirements are not met or the
discharge would cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit. In lieu of denial
of permission the WRA Director may allow such contribution or discharge upon
conditions which would not violate applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements and would not cause the WRF to violate its NPDES permit.



5.   Food service establishments shall be regulated first under Chapter
101 of this Code of Ordinances but may be required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit and be subject to the requirements of this chapter if the
WRA Director determines that additional pretreatment is required in order to
comply with fat, oil and grease discharge limits.



Any part of this section notwithstanding, upon receipt of the notice required
by this section, the Director may require, in addition to the requirements of
this section, that an industrial user obtain a permit under this chapter.
Users who are determined to be industrial users as herein defined and who
refuse to apply for or obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall be subject
to termination of sewer services as provided in Section 100.41 hereof.



100.08  DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.



The following general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW unless the
user is subject to a more restrictive NCPS, IDNR, or wastewater discharge
permit limit. The following substances are prohibited from discharge to the
POTW:



1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140ºF (60ºC) using test methods referenced in 40 CFR 261.21.
Waste streams shall not be ignitable at ambient temperatures.  At no time
shall two successive readings on a meter capable of reading L.E.L. (lower
explosive limit) at the nearest accessible point to the POTW, at the point of
discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW be more than five
percent (5%), nor any single reading greater than ten percent (10%).



2.   Substances which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 12.0.



3.   Solid or viscous pollutants which will cause obstruction to the flow
in the POTW resulting in interference.  Such pollutants include, but are not
limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half (½) inch in
any dimension, animal tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
wipes, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, tar, asphalt
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass
grinding or polishing waste, or tumbling and de-burring stones, and
wastewater containing wax, FOG, or other substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32º and 150ºF (0º and 65ºC).



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



4.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant concentration which will
cause interference or pass through at the WRF or which constitutes a slug
load as defined in this chapter.



5.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater or vapor having a
temperature higher than 150ºF (65ºC) at the point of introduction into the
POTW; and in no case wastewater or vapor which alone or in concert with other
discharges produces a temperature at the WRF greater than 104ºF (40ºC).



6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.



7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems or a public nuisance.



8.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the WRA.



9.   Radioactive wastes unless they comply with Atomic Energy Commission
Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919 as amended and part 20, Sub-Part D - Waste
Disposal, Section 20.303 of the Regulations issued by the Atomic Energy
Commission, or amendments thereto).



10.   Any wastewater containing concentrations of inert suspended solids
(such as, but not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime
residues), or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium
chloride and sodium sulfate), which exceed 3000 mg/l non-volatile or 3000
mg/l total dissolved solids unless approved by the Administrator or Director.



11.   Pollutants causing excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited
to, dye waste and vegetable tanning solutions).



100.09  LOCAL LIMITS FOR SPECIFIC POLLUTANTS.



1.   Generally. Local limits for specific pollutants discharged pursuant
to this chapter shall be as follows:



   A.   Dilution.  Dilution of the discharge from a pretreatment
facility or from a regulated process is prohibited as a method for treatment
of wastes in order to meet the limits set forth in this chapter. 



   B.   Sample Location. Measurement of pollutant concentrations to
determine compliance shall be made at the point immediately following the
pretreatment facility and before mixture with other waters, unless another
point is designated by the WRA Director. If necessary, the concentrations so
measured shall be recomputed to exclude the effect of any dilution that is
improper using the combined waste stream formula.



2.   Headworks Limits; Average Mass.  The average composite loading of
all users contributing the following specific pollutants to the POTW shall
not exceed the allowable total pounds.  The allocation of pollutants between
industrial and non-industrial sources may be adjusted by the Director
provided that the allowable total loading for any pollutant at the headworks
of the WRF is not exceeded.



 

 

30-day Average Allowable Pounds/Day



Pollutant
 

Total

 

Industrial



BOD
 

195,600

 

135,153



TSS
 

300,400

 

208,463



NH 3
 

13,000

 

6,959



TKN
 

27,760

 

16,950




 



 

 
Maximum Allowable Headworks Loading Pounds/Day
 
Maximum Allowable Industrial Loading Pounds/Day


Pollutant
 

Total

 

Industrial





Arsenic – T
 

7.58

 

3.81



Cadmium – T
 

3.65

 

2.16



Chromium - T
 

136.35

 

120.90



Copper – T
 

148.56

 

125.51



Cyanide – T
 

17.08

 

8.28



Lead – T
 

28.17

 

20.94



Mercury - T
 

0.999

 

0.747



Nickel – T
 

87.27

 

75.75



Silver – T
 

23.30

 

19.77



Zinc - T
 

360.59

 

283.53






(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)




3.   Discharge Concentration Limits and Review Criteria.



   A.   The discharge into the POTW of any materials, water, or waste
having a pollutant concentration greater than the limits in subsections C, D
and E below, or containing pollutants not listed herein, shall be subject to
the review    and approval of the WRA Director.  After review of the
proposed discharges, the Director may:



      (1)   Reject the waste for reasons consistent with Section
100.05.



      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable pollutant
concentration for discharge to the POTW. 



      (3)   Require control of the quantities and rates of discharge
of the water or waste to prevent slug loads.



      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treatment of water and waste or any combination thereof.



      (5)   Reduce the maximum or average mass loading of present
and prospective individual users on any reasonable prorated basis to meet
headworks loading limits at the WRF.. 



      (6)   Require the user to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
and be subject to any of the rules and regulations contained therein. 



      (7)   Require the user to meet local limits where local limits
are more restrictive than NCPS, provided that headworks loading limits are
met. 



      (8)   Initiate enforcement action in response to any
noncompliance with this chapter using the enforcement procedures outlined in
this chapter.



      (9)   Take any combination of steps (1) through (7) as
appropriate. 



   B.   Users discharging wastewater to the POTW having pollutant
concentrations or flows greater than the following shall be considered
industrial users for purposes of sewer charges and may be regulated or
permitted by the Director as appropriate:



 

Pollutant
 
Daily Maximum (mg/l)




BOD
 
200


TSS
 
250


COD
 
300


FOG – T
 
100


TKN
 
30


NH 3 - N
 
15


An average daily flow greater than 5000 gallons or having an unusual
concentration of flow.  (Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)










   C.   Pollutant Limits.  Average and maximum concentration limits
for users without an NCPS for these pollutants shall be:




 

30-day Average Allowable Pounds/Day


Pollutant
 
Daily
Maximum
(mg/l)
 
Monthly
Average
(mg/l)




Arsenic – T
 

0.38

 

0.25



Cadmium – T
 

0.08

 

0.05



Chromium - T
 

6.43

 

4.29



Copper – T
 

10.21

 

6.80



Cyanide – T
 

0.53

 

0.36



Lead – T
 

1.43

 

0.95



Mercury – T
 

0.042

 

0.028



Nickel – T
 

7.22

 

4.81



O&G – T
 

400.0

 

--



O&G – Mineral
 

100.0

 

--



Silver – T
 

1.30

 

0.87



TVPH
 

10.0

 

--



Zinc - T
 

19.64

 

13.09






(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)





   D.   Daily maximum pollutant limits for hauled waste. Wastes
delivered to the WRF by truck or rail shall not exceed the following
concentrations in any load or overall daily loading limits unless otherwise
approved by the WRA Director:




 


Pollutant

 
Concentration (mg/l)
 
Loading (pounds/day)




COD
 

100,000

 

--



O&G-T
 

50,000

 

--



VPH
 

10.0

 

--



Arsenic – T
 

--

 

0.014



Cadmium – T
 

--

 

0.93



Chromium – T
 

--

 

24.74



Copper – T
 

--

 

23.71



Cyanide - T
 

--

 

0.29



Lead – T
 

--

 

6.70



Mercury – T
 

--

 

0.12



Nickel - T
 

--

 

3.71



Silver-T
 

--

 

0.26



Zinc – T
 

--

 

87.62




pH range shall be not lower than 5.0 or greater than 12.0






(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)





   E.   Gasoline Cleanup Projects – Daily Maximum Limit.  Discharge
of wastewater from sites where gasoline is being removed from soil or
groundwater shall meet the following limits prior to discharge to the POTW:




 

Pollutant
 
(mg/l)


Benzene
 
0.050


BETX
 
0.750



 



4.   No provision of this section shall be construed to provide lesser
discharge standards than are presently or may hereafter be imposed and
required by U.S. EPA or IDNR, or to allow the average allowable total loading
for any pollutant at the headworks of the WRF to be exceeded.



100.10  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. 



Users subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards (NCPS) as
contained in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Part 405-471, shall comply with
the standards and applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR 403.12. 
New sources of categorical discharge shall meet NCPS in the shortest feasible
time but in no case longer than 90 days from the commencement of discharge. 
Failure to comply shall be a violation of this chapter and subject the user
to enforcement action.  The WRA or City shall notify all known affected
categorical users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR
403.12.  Failure to notify the user shall not relieve the user of the duty,
if any, to comply with NCPS.



100.11  STATE REQUIREMENTS.



State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than U.S. EPA or POTW requirements and
limitations unless allowed by the IDNR.



100.12  PRETREATMENT.



1.   A user discharging, or with potential to discharge, any waste into
the POTW as set forth in Sections 100.08, 100.09, or 100.10 shall be required
by the WRA Director to construct, install and operate, at the user's sole
expense, such pretreatment facilities as may be required in order to:



   A.   Reduce the objectionable characteristics or constituents to
within the maximum limits provided for in Sections 100.08, 100.09, 100.10 and
100.11;



   B.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such
wastewater;



   C.   Reduce the pollutants to such concentration and flows as may be
contained in the user’s wastewater discharge permit;



   D.   Prevent the discharge of liquid waste containing FOG, sand in
excessive amounts, any flammable waste, or other harmful pollutants. All
traps or similar devices shall be of a type and capacity needed to perform
effectively and shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. All traps or devices shall be provided and maintained in
efficient operating condition at all times. Materials removed from traps
shall be considered unacceptable for disposal at the WRF unless specifically
approved by the WRA Director.



2.   All plans, specifications, technical operating data and other
information pertinent to the proposed operation and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities shall be reviewed and approved by the WRA Director
prior to construction. Design and installation of such facilities shall be
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws,
including local zoning regulations. The review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall, in no way, relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the WRA Director under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operations
shall be reported to and be acceptable to the WRA Director prior to the
user's initiations of the changes.



3.   Users shall continuously maintain all pretreatment facilities
required by this chapter in satisfactory and effective operating condition at
the sole expense of such user.



4.   No provision contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
or prohibit a separate or special agreement between the WRA and any user
whereby wastewater containing waste of unusual strength, character or
composition may be accepted for treatment, subject to additional payment by
such user; provided, however, that such agreement shall have the prior
approval of the WRA Board, shall not conflict with IDNR and U.S. EPA
requirements, and shall be consistent with Sections 100.09(2), 100.10, 100.11
and 100.12(6) of this chapter.



5.   The WRA Director may reject any waste which, in the opinion of the
Director, may cause interference or pass through.



6.   Users shall obtain the specific approval of the WRA Director prior to
discharging any waste resulting from a pretreatment facility to the POTW. 
The Director may develop a documentation system to track the transportation
and final disposition of any pretreatment waste. Pretreatment waste regulated
by this section shall include waste generated as a result of pretreatment
processes used to comply with NPDES permits, air pollution permits,
wastewater discharge permits, soil/groundwater reclamation processes, and
pollutants resulting from a spill of any liquid or solid material or the
cleanup of any such spill. Pretreatment waste is prohibited from disposal to
the water of the State except as specifically permitted by IDNR.



100.13  DILUTION PROHIBITED.



Users shall not increase the use of process water or attempt, in any way, to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
pretreatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
NCPS, or with any other pollutant-specific limitation developed by the WRA or
its operating contractor.



100.14  SPILL CONTAINMENT.



1.   Users having the ability to cause interference or pass through or to
discharge a slug shall provide protection from accidental discharge to the
POTW of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. 
Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
constructed, installed, operated and maintained at the user’s sole cost and
expense.



2.   Users meeting the criteria in subsection 1 thereof shall develop a
Spill Containment Plan (SCP). The plan shall require the approval of the WRA
Director and shall contain the following:



   A.   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine
batch discharges.



   B.   A description of stored chemicals.



   C.   Procedures for immediately notifying the WRA of slug
discharges, including any that would violate the discharge prohibitions in
Section 100.08 of this chapter. Notification procedures shall comply with
subsections 3 and 4 of this section.



   D.   A description of procedures and structures necessary to prevent
adverse POTW impact from accidental spills including inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site run-off, worker training,
building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing
toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment
for emergency response.



   E.   A schedule for the completion or implementation of necessary
procedures and structures.  Complete implementation and installation of any
procedures or structures shall be according to the shortest possible schedule
but in no case longer than one year.  Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify and operate its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.



3.   Users shall immediately telephone and notify the WRA in the case of
an accidental or deliberate discharge of pollutants which violates Section
100.08 of this chapter or is a slug load. Any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which is a listed or characteristic waste under Section 3001 of
RCRA must be immediately reported to the U.S. EPA Regional Director, IDNR,
and the WRA.  Notifications required in this section shall include the name
of caller, location and time of discharge, pollutant concentration, volume
and the corrective actions taken.



4.   Users shall submit a written report to the WRA Director within five
(5) days following such an accidental or deliberate discharge describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Users shall submit follow up reports as may be
required by the Director. Such report, or reports, shall not relieve the user
of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such report relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or
otherwise. Failure to report accidental or deliberate discharges may, in
addition to any other remedies available to the City, result in the
revocation of the discharger's wastewater discharge permit.



5.   Users shall control production or all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its pretreatment facility until the facility
is restored or an alternative method of pretreatment is provided.  This
requirement applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary
source of power to the user’s pretreatment facility is reduced, lost or
fails.



6.   Users required to have a SCP must permanently post a notice in
English and the language of common use on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call should a prohibited
discharge occur.  Users shall insure that all employees who are in a
position to cause, discover, or observe such an accidental discharge are
advised of the emergency notification procedures.



100.15  TREATMENT UPSETS.



Users shall inform the WRA Director within one hour of becoming aware of an
upset in operations that places it in a temporary state of noncompliance with
the pollutant limits in this chapter. Users shall provide a follow-up written
report to the Director within five (5) days. The report must demonstrate that
the pretreatment facility was being operated in a prudent and appropriate
manner and shall contain:



1.   A description of the upset, its cause(s), and impact on the user's
compliance status.



2.   The duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times of
noncompliance, and if the noncompliance is continuing, the time by which
compliance is reasonably expected to be restored.



3.   All steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of such an upset.



100.16  TREATMENT BYPASS.



1.   Bypass is prohibited unless it is unavoidable to prevent loss of
life, personal injury, or severe property damage or no feasible alternatives
exist such as the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of
untreated waste, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment down time.



2.   The user may allow a bypass to occur which does not cause a violation
of pretreatment standards, but only if it is for essential maintenance to
assure efficient operation. 



3.   Notification of Bypass:



   A.   Anticipated Bypass. If the user knows in advance of the need
for a bypass, it shall submit prior written notice, at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass, to the WRA Director.



   B.   Unanticipated Bypass. The user shall immediately notify the
Director and submit a written report to the WRA within five (5) days. This
report shall specify:



      (1)   A description of the bypass, its cause and the duration;



      (2)   Whether the bypass has been corrected;



      (3)   The steps being taken or to be taken to reduce,
eliminate and prevent a reoccurrence of the bypass.



Proper notification shall not relieve the user of liability for treatment
costs and fees or other remedies as provided for in Section 100.12.



100.17    FEES. 



To provide for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW and for the
implementation of the pretreatment program established by this chapter, the
following fees shall be applicable to discharges by all users:



1.   All users shall be subject to the following:



   A.   The wastewater discharge permit application fee is $200.00 for
a Class A permit, $100.00 for a Class B permit and $100.00 for
soil/groundwater remediation permits.



   B.   The annual fee for a Class A wastewater discharge permit is
$1,000.00.



   C.   The annual fee for a Class B wastewater discharge permit is
$400.00.



   D.   The fee paid by each industrial user when an accidental
discharge or slug load occurs shall be up to $1,000.00.  Said fee shall
reimburse the City or WRA for any costs incurred as a result of the discharge.



   E.   The fee for sampling a user’s discharge is $50.00/day when
using a 24-hour automatic sampler.  The fee for subsequent consecutive days
and for collecting grab samples is $25.00/day.  When a sampling event must
be rescheduled due to failure of the user’s sampling equipment or due to a
sampler seal (used to detect sample tampering) being broken, a trip charge of
$25.00 and a rescheduling fee of $50.00 shall be assessed.  The trip charge
fee may be waived if the user informs the POTW of sampling equipment failure
prior to 8:00 a.m. of a scheduled sampling day. 



   F.   Laboratory analysis fees for those analyses performed by the
WRA shall be:



 


LABORATORY ANALYSIS FEES



Test
 

Cost/Sample





BOD
 

$20.00



COD
 

$20.00



TOC
 

$20.00



TSS
 

$10.00



pH
 

$5.00



FOG, Total
 

$35.00



FOG, Mineral/Non-mineral
 

$35.00



Nitrogen, Ammonia
 

$15.00



Nitrogen, Nitrate
 

$15.00



TKN
 

$30.00



Phosphorous, Total
 

$25.00



Potassium
 

$12.00



Calcium Carbonate Equivalent
 

$15.00



Soil Analysis – each pollutant
 

$20.00



Phenols
 

$28.00



Cyanide
 

$30.00



Metals:
 





Arsenic

 

$20.00




Selenium

 

$20.00




Mercury

 

$25.00




Other metals (per parameter)

 

$15.00



BETX (OA-1)
 

$40.00



VPH (OA-1)
 

$40.00



BETX and VPH (OA-1)
 

$45.00



U.S. EPA Tests:
 





608 Organochlorine Pesticides and PCBS

 

$70.00




624 Volatile Organic Compounds

 

$140.00




625 Base/Neutral Organic Compounds and/or Acid/Organic Compounds

 

$290.00






(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)





G.   Fees for analysis performed by laboratories other than the WRA
laboratory shall be the full cost of each analysis. 




   H.   Fees for annual or biannual inspections of permitted users
shall be $100.00 for those holding a Class A permit and $50.00 for those
holding a Class B permit.



   I.   Fees for copying and mailing documents shall be $1.00 for the
initial page and $0.25 for each additional page plus postage. No charges
shall be assessed for requests for copies received from individuals or
agencies served by the WRA provided the number of pages requested does not
exceed ten.



   J.   Fees for past due reminders sent each thirty (30) days that a
balance remains unpaid shall be $5.00. 



   K.   Prohibitive waste charges for each pollutant discharged in
excess of permit or ordinance limits shall be $25.00/day for Class B permit
holders and $50.00/day for Class A permit holders.  High strength charges
shall double if discharges are slug loads.  Payment of fees does not
preclude other enforcement action and may not be paid in lieu of compliance
with discharge limitations.



   L.   Fees for inspection of a food service establishment as defined
in Section 101.02 of this Code, regulation of fats, oils, and grease
discharge by food service establishments, shall be $50 per visit.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



2.   All users contributing wastewater in excess of the concentrations
hereafter listed shall be assessed a surcharge, which shall be in addition to
the rates and charges ordinarily billed to such users for sewer use:



 

POLLUTANT
 

SURCHARGE



Suspended solids in excess of 250 mg/l
 

$0.16/lb



BOD or CBOD in excess of 200 mg/l
 

$0.11/lb



TKN in excess of 30 mg/l
 

$0.61/lb



FOG in excess of 100 mg/l
 

$0.06/lb




 



Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) in excess of 300 mg/l may be used at the
discretion of the WRA Director in lieu of BOD.  In such case the excess COD
concentration shall be multiplied by the known CBOD/COD ratio or by a ratio
of two-thirds (2/3) to establish an equivalent CBOD concentration. 



Ammonia Nitrogen (NH 3 -N) in excess of 15 mg/l may be used at the discretion
of the WRA Director in lieu of TKN by multiplying the excess NH 3 -N
concentration times two (2) to establish an equivalent TKN concentration.



3.   The establishment and imposition of new or different fees or charges,
in addition to or in substitution for those provided above in this section,
shall be by ordinance amending this chapter.  The amounts of the fees and
charges established in this section shall be and remain in effect until such
time as the WRA Board shall by resolution revise said fee amounts.  Said
revised fees and charges shall take effect after the Board causes said
resolution to be sent to the Council and thereafter causes same to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in each county in which
participating communities are located.



100.18  CLASSES OF DISCHARGE PERMIT.



Discharge permit classifications shall be as follows: 



1.   Class A Permit – Issued to users discharging 25,000 gallons per day
or more of process wastewater (excludes sanitary, non-contact cooling, and
boiler blowdown).   



2.   Class B Permit – Issued to users discharging less than 25,000 gpd
of process wastewater. 



100.19  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.



1.   All new industrial users shall notify the WRA Director of the nature
and characteristics of their proposed discharge 180 days prior to commencing
discharge. A notification form prescribed by the WRA shall be used for this
purpose.



2.   Significant users shall discharge wastewater, either directly or
indirectly, into the POTW only after obtaining a wastewater discharge permit
from the WRA Director. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not
relieve a user of the obligation to obtain other permits required by Federal,
State, or local law.



3.   Other users, including waste haulers, shall obtain permits as
required by the WRA Director.



100.20  PERMIT APPLICATIONS; BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.



Users applying for a wastewater discharge permit or submitting a baseline
monitoring report shall submit the following information as required by 40
CFR 403.12 or by the WRA Director:



1.   Users applying for a wastewater discharge permit must submit an
application form prescribed by the WRA and accompanied by the application
fee. All new significant users must submit such application 180 days prior to
the date of any wastewater discharge. Existing users subject to new NCPS
must, within 180 days after the effective date of the standard, submit such
an application. The following information is required:



   A.   Name, address, and location of facility (if different from the
mailing address).



   B.   Name of a person or agent authorized to accept legal service of
process.



   C.   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code of both the
industry as a whole and any processes for which NCPS have been promulgated
and a list of any environmental control permits held by or for the facility.



   D.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including any
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by any Federal, State, or local
standards with sampling and analysis performed in accordance with EPA
approved methods, and meeting the following requirements: 



      (1)   The user shall identify the pretreatment standards
applicable to each regulated process if the user is a categorical user.



      (2)   All samples shall be representative of daily operations.



      (3)   A minimum of four (4) grab samples, if required, must be
used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile
organics. For all other pollutants required, 24-hour composite samples must
be obtained through flow-proportional composite sampling techniques where
feasible. The WRA Director may waive flow-proportional composite sampling for
any user that demonstrates that flow-proportional sampling is not feasible.
In such cases, samples may be obtained through time-proportional techniques
or through a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user demonstrates
that such sampling will provide a representative sample of the effluent being
discharged.



      (4)   Where the flow of the stream being sampled is less than
or equal to 250,000 gpd, the user must analyze three (3) samples within a
two-week period.  Where the flow of the stream being sampled is greater than
250,000 gpd, the user must analyze six (6) samples within a two-week period.



      (5)   Samples must be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists and prior to mixing with other
waste. If non-regulated wastewater is mixed with regulated wastewater prior
to pretreatment, the user must measure the flows and concentrations necessary
to allow use of the combined waste stream formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e) in order
to evaluate compliance with pretreatment standards. Where an alternate
concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40 CFR
403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted
to the WRA Director. Users not subject to categorical standards shall submit
analysis of wastewater representative of the effluent discharged to the POTW.



      (6)   The WRA Director may allow the submission of an
application which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for pretreatment.



      (7)   A statement indicating the time, date and place of
sampling, methods of analysis, and certifying that such sampling and analysis
is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to
the POTW shall accompany each Application/Baseline Monitoring Report unless
such sampling and analysis was performed by the WRA.



   E.   Time and duration of all discharges.



   F.   Daily maximum, daily average and monthly average wastewater
flow rates, including daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any.



   G.   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes at
the site, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used at the
facility which are or could accidentally or intentionally be discharged to
the POTW.



   H.   The site plans, floor plans and mechanical and plumbing plans
and details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size,
location and elevation.  The plans shall include a schematic process diagram
which indicates all points of discharge to the POTW.  All plans must be
certified for accuracy by a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa.



   I.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production.



   J.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day).



   K.   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation, and
proposed or actual hours of operation of the pretreatment facility.



   L.   A statement, reviewed by an authorized representative of the
user (as defined in Section 100.01 and certified to by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Iowa, indicating whether pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis and if not whether additional
operation and maintenance (O&M) or additional pretreatment is required for
the user to meet pretreatment standards and requirements.



   M.   If additional pretreatment or O&M will be required to meet
pretreatment standards or requirements, then the user shall supply a
compliance schedule indicating the shortest time schedule necessary to
accomplish installation or adoption of such additional pretreatment or O&M. 
The completion date in this schedule shall not be longer than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The following
conditions apply to this schedule:



      (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the
user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards.  Such schedule shall
include, where applicable (but shall not be limited to), dates for the hiring
of an engineer, completing preliminary plans, executing contracts for major
components, commencing construction, beginning operation, and conducting
routine operations.



      (2)   No increment referred to in subsection (1) above shall
exceed nine (9) months, nor shall the total compliance period exceed eighteen
(18) months.



      (3)   No later than fourteen (14) days following each date in
the schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a
progress report to the WRA Director, including as a minimum, whether or not
it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if
appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the established
schedule. In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the WRA Director.



   N.   If additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
will be required to meet the limits on discharge into the POTW set forth in
Sections 100.08, 100.09, 100.10, or any other limits set by the WRA Director,
a plan shall be provided by the user giving the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide the needed equipment, operation, or maintenance changes
and additions to meet such limits. The completion date in this schedule shall
not be later than the compliance date established for the NCPS. In the case
of a compliance schedule for meeting NCPS the following condition shall apply:



      (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required to meet
the applicable NCPS (such schedule shall include, where applicable, but not
be limited to, dates for the hiring of an engineer, completing preliminary
plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major components,
commencing construction and completing construction). 



      (2)   No time increment in the schedule may exceed nine (9)
months.



      (3)   No later than fourteen (14) days after each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the WRA Director stating whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which
it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay,
and the steps being taken by the user to return to the schedule established.
In no case shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such progress
reports to the WRA.



   O.   Any additional information required by the WRA Director to
evaluate a permit application.



2.   All applications and reports must contain the certification statement
and be signed in accordance with Section 100.30.



100.21  CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIES; REPORT ON COMPLIANCE.



Users subject to NCPS shall submit a report to the City or WRA Director
containing the information described in subsection 100.20(1), paragraphs A,
C, D, E, and K within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable NCPS or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of
discharge.  Users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits shall
provide a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production rate.  For
all other users subject to NCPS expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling
period.  All reports must contain the certification statement and be signed
in accordance with Section 100.30 of this chapter.



100.22  PERMIT CONTENTS.



Wastewater discharge permits shall include such conditions as are reasonably
deemed necessary by the WRA Director to prevent pass through or interference,
protect the quality of the water body receiving the POTW's effluent, protect
worker health and safety, facilitate the WRA's sludge management and disposal
program, protect ambient air quality, and protect against damage to the POTW.
The WRA Director may include, but need not be limited to, the following:



1.   Limits on the average or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.



2.   Limits on the average or maximum concentration, mass, or other
measure of identified wastewater constituents or properties.



3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, etc., designed to reduce,
eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW.



4.   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including additional management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or prohibited discharges.



5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW.



6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection,
sampling, and flow monitoring facilities and equipment for each separate
discharge into the POTW.



7.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules.



8.   Compliance schedules.



9.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports
and which may include production data.



10.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharge, as specified by the WRA Director, and affording the WRA
Director or designated representatives access thereto.



11.   Requirements for the notification of any substantial change in the
manufacturing processes, pretreatment processes, quantity or quality of waste
discharged to the POTW 90 days prior to such change. The WRA Director shall
approve, deny, or condition a changed discharge prior to a change occurring
in accordance with the provisions of Section 100.07(4) of this chapter.



12.   Requirements for notification of excessive, accidental, or slug
discharges.



13.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the WRA Director to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations.



14.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable Federal
pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
term of the permit. 



100.23  PERMIT DURATION AND RENEWAL.



Permits shall be issued for a specified period, not to exceed five (5) years.
Permit fees shall be due annually to the WRA regardless of the term of
permit. Permitted users shall apply for new permit by submitting a completed
permit application a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of
the user's existing permit. 



100.24  CONTINUATION OF EXPIRED PERMITS.



Expired permits shall remain effective and enforceable until the permit is
reissued unless the user is notified of permit termination by the WRA
Director.



100.25  PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.



The WRA Director may modify the permit for good cause including, but not
limited to, the following:



1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
pretreatment standard or requirement (after becoming aware of more stringent
standards or requirements, the WRA will update permits within 90 days).



2.   Material or substantial alterations or additions to the
dischargers’ operation processes, or discharge volume or character which
were not considered in drafting the effective permit.



3.   A change in any condition in either the industrial user or the POTW
that requires either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the
authorized discharge.



4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the POTW, to the City, the WRA, POTW personnel or the receiving water.



5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the permit.



6.   Misrepresentation of or grant of variance from such categorical
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13.



7.   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit.



8.   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner/operator.



9.   Upon request of the permittee, provided such request does not create
a violation of any applicable requirements, standards, laws, or rules and
regulations.   



The filing of a request by the permittee for permit modification, revocation
and reissuance, termination, or a notification of planned changes or
anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition.



100.26  PERMIT TRANSFER.



Users shall not reassign or transfer a wastewater discharge permit to a new
owner.  New owners must apply for a new wastewater discharge permit sixty
(60) days prior to a change in ownership.



100.27  DENIAL OF PERMIT.



The WRA Director may deny a permit to any user whose discharge of material to
POTW, whether shown upon application, including test results submitted by
applicant, or determined after inspection and testing conducted by the WRA or
its operating contractor, is not in conformity with this chapter or whose
application is incomplete or does not comply with the requirements of Section
100.20.



100.28  PERMIT VIOLATIONS.



Any violations of the terms, conditions, or limits of a user’s wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject the
user to all enforcement procedures outlined in this chapter.



100.29  PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.



Periodic compliance reports are required as follows: 



1.   Significant users shall submit to the WRA Director, during the months
of January and July, a report indicating the nature, concentration, and flow
of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by permit or pretreatment
standards for the preceding six month period. This report shall include a
record of the monthly average flows and the daily flow for each analysis date
during the reporting period. At the discretion of the WRA Director and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays,
budget cycles, etc., the or WRA Director may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be submitted. More frequent reports may be
required by the WRA Director.



2.   The WRA Director may impose mass limitations on users. In such cases,
the report required by the above paragraph shall indicate the mass of
pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
All analyses shall be performed using EPA approved methods using sampling
techniques approved by IDNR.



3.   Users shall meet the certification and signatory requirements in
Section 100.30 for each report submitted under this section.  Where the WRA
itself collects all the information required for the report, including flow
data, the industrial user will not be required to submit a periodic
compliance report.



4.   Users must notify the WRA of all violations identified as a result of
self-monitoring by telephone, during normal business hours, within 24 hours
of the time the User becomes aware of such violation. The user must also
submit the results of repeat analyses to the WRA within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation together with a complete report on all
steps taken to resolve the violation. The user need not repeat the analyses
if: 



   A.   The WRA performs sampling of the industrial user at a frequency
of at least once per month, or



   B.   The WRA performs sampling of the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the
results of this sampling.



5.   Users who monitor any pollutant more frequently than required or who
self-monitor in addition to WRA monitoring, using EPA methods or standard
methods, shall report the monitoring results to the POTW in accordance with
this section.



100.30  CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.



1.   All applications or reports submitted by a user shall contain the
following certification statement:



      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all
attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance
with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted.  Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete.  I am aware that there
are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.”



2.   All applications and reports shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the user as defined in Section 100.01. Users shall maintain
a current and accurate authorization on file with the WRA Director.



100.31  MONITORING FACILITIES.



1.   Permitted users, when required by the WRA Director, shall provide and
operate monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer, or internal drainage systems at their own
expense. The WRA Director may require the placement of such monitoring
facilities at the end of each process where pollutants are used, produced, or
treated. The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's
premises and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or
parked vehicles. 



2.   When required by permit and within 90 days of written notification,
users shall install a sampling chamber for each separate discharge of the
building sewer in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the
WRA Director. Users shall provide ample room in or near such sampling chamber
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. Users
shall maintain all sampling and measuring equipment in a safe and proper
operating condition at all times and at the expense of the user, which
equipment shall be safely, easily and independently accessible to authorized
representatives of the WRA.  Users shall certify all flow measuring devices
to be in proper working condition at a frequency specified in the permit or
in writing by the Administrator or WRA Director using a qualified technician
acceptable to the Administrator or WRA Director.



   A.   Each sampling chamber shall contain a flume unless another
device is approved by the WRA, with a recording and totalizing device for
measurement of the liquid quantity.



   B.   At the discretion of the WRA Director, metered water supply to
a user may be used as the volume quantity where it is substantiated that the
metered water supply and waste quantities are approximately the same, or
where a measurable adjustment agreed to by the Director is made in the
metered water supply to determine the liquid waste quantity. Separate meters
may be used to subtract water which is not discharged to the POTW or is
discharged to a sewer other than the sampled location.   



   C.   Samples shall be taken at a frequency and volume determined by
the WRA Director, and shall be properly refrigerated and preserved in
accordance with EPA-approved methods. The sample shall be composited in
proportion to the flow for a representative 24-hour sample. A time
proportioned 24-hour sample may be used if flow proportioned sampling is
determined by the WRA Director to be impractical. Grab samples shall be used
where appropriate. 



3.   Users must inform the WRA Director prior to breaking a sampler seal,
used to detect sample tampering, unless necessary to prevent loss of life,
personal injury, or severe property damage. Users must not place additional
seals or locks upon a sampler which may be used by the WRA without first
obtaining approval from the WRA Director.



100.32  INSPECTION, SAMPLING, AND RECORD KEEPING AUTHORITY.



Users shall give the following authorities to the WRA and its operating
contractor: 



1.   Users shall permit authorized representatives or agents of the WRA to
enter upon all properties and all parts of the premises or upon properties of
users with wastewater discharge permits for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination, records copying, or the performance of any of
their duties. This shall include the right to set up, on the user's property,
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, or metering operations as may be required in pursuance of the
implementation and enforcement of this chapter.



2.   Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the
user shall make necessary arrangements in the security measures so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the WRA or operating
contractor will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.



3.   All users subject to any of the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall maintain copies of reports and records of all information as
required in 40 CFR 403.12(o) resulting from any monitoring activities
required by this chapter for a minimum of three (3) years and shall make such
records available for inspection and copying by the WRA and its operating
contractor.  This period of retention shall be extended until the completion
of any unresolved negotiation, hearing, or litigation involving a purported
violation.



100.33  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.



1.   Except as herein provided, documents, data and information obtained
from user reports, questionnaires, permit applications and inspections, shall
be made available to the public or other governmental agencies without
restriction. If the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate
that the release of such information would divulge information concerning
processes or methods of production entitled to protection under law as trade
secrets of the user or would give advantage to competitors and serve no
public purpose the WRA Director shall not make such information available to
the public but such information shall be available to the U.S. EPA or IDNR. 



2.   Decisions by the WRA Director to deny confidential status for
information may be appealed using the procedures in Section 100.34. In
determining whether information is confidential, the provision of Chapter 22
of the Code of Iowa shall prevail.



3.   Effluent data and WRA enforcement actions will not be considered
confidential records or information.



100.34  APPEAL OF DENIAL OF CONFIDENTIAL STATUS. 



1.   Any person aggrieved by a decision to release information or data
obtained as provided in subsection 100.33(1) of this chapter and who can
demonstrate a direct and substantial interest in the information or data
sought to be kept confidential may appeal the decision of the WRA Director. A
request for appeal shall be filed in writing with the Director not less than
five days after the decision to deny confidential status to such information
or data. The appeal request shall include a statement of the basis upon which
the request for confidential status is made, as well as the appealing party's
interest in the information or data sought to be kept confidential. The WRA
Director may request additional information from the appeal party.



2.   Based upon the information provided by the appealing party, the WRA
Director shall make a determination with respect to the confidentiality of
the information or data at issue. The WRA Director shall notify the parties,
in writing, of the decision within seven days after receipt of the appeal.



3.   If still aggrieved by the WRA Director's determination on appeal, a
party may file an action in Polk County District Court, seeking a declaratory
ruling with respect to the confidentiality of such documents, data and
information, or seeking an injunction to prevent the disclosure of same.



4.   During the pendency of an appeal to the WRA Director, the documents,
data or information at issue shall be kept confidential. However, if during
the pendency of such appeal, a request for examination or copying of such
documents, data or information is made of the WRA or its operating contractor
pursuant to Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, the WRA or its operating
contractor will notify the appealing party of such request for disclosure and
will keep confidential the requested documents, data or information, pending
action by the appealing party to defend its confidentiality request. In that
notification, the appealing party requesting confidentiality will be given
not more than five calendar days within which to file suit in Polk County
District Court seeking the entry of a declaratory order and/or injunction to
protect and keep confidential such documents, data or information. If the
appealing party fails to initiate suit within the time requested, the WRA
Director shall release the documents, data or information at issue for public
examination.



5.   If during the pendency of such appeal, a lawsuit is initiated
pursuant to Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa seeking the release of such
documents, data or information, the appealing party shall take action to
defend its confidentiality request in said lawsuit. If the appealing party
fails to defend its confidentiality request in said suit, the WRA Director
shall release the documents, date or information at issue for public
examination.



100.35  PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.



The WRA shall annually publish, in the largest daily newspaper published in
the WRA community, a list of users which at any time during the previous
twelve months, were in significant noncompliance as defined in Section 100.36
of this chapter.



100.36  SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC).



Any violation of pretreatment requirements (i.e., but not limited to: limits,
sampling, analysis, reporting, meeting compliance schedules, and regulatory
deadlines) is an instance of noncompliance for which the user is liable for
enforcement, including penalties and injunctive relief. Instances of SNC are
user violations which meet one or more of the following criteria: 



1.   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.   



   A.   Chronic Violations.  Sixty-six percent (66%) or more of the
measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit or the same average limit in
a 6-month period (any magnitude of excess).



   B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) Violations.  Thirty-three
percent (33%) or more of the measurements exceed the same daily maximum limit
or the same average limit by more than the TRC in a 6-month period. (e.g.,
limit x TRC = the point at which a violation becomes a TRC violation). 
There are two groups of TRC’s: 



      Group I for conventional pollutants (BOD, TSS, FOG)   TRC = 1.4



      Group II for all other pollutants   TRC = 1.2



   C.   Any other violation(s) of a wastewater discharge permit limit
(average or daily maximum) that the WRA Director believes has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference (including slug loads)
or pass through; or endangered the health of the public or of the personnel
of the WRA, or its operating contractor.



   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment and has resulted
in the exercise of emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.



2.   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
wastewater discharge permit or enforcement order, for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance by ninety (90) days or
more after the schedule date.



3.   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedules, self-monitoring
data, or any other report required by the POTW within forty-five (45) days
from the due date.



4.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.



5.   Any other violations or group of violations, which may include a
violation of Best Management Practices that the WRA Director considers to be
significant. 



When a user is in SNC, the WRA Director is directed to: (a) report the
information to IDNR as part of the annual pretreatment performance summary of
permitted user noncompliance; (b) include the user in the annual public
notification according to Section 100.35; (c) address SNC through appropriate
enforcement actions or document in a timely manner the reasons for
withholding enforcement.



100.37  ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS.



1.   The WRA Director may issue a written notice to the user giving
specific nature of violations which shall include the frequency, magnitude
and impact of the violation upon the POTW.  The notice may also include the
following:



   A.   An order requiring a plan of action for preventing reoccurrence
of the violation;



   B.   An order requiring specific action for accomplishing
remediation;



   C.   An order requiring the user to respond in writing within thirty
(30) days.



2.   The WRA Director is empowered to enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing
an agreement with the user responsible for any noncompliance. Such orders
will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct noncompliance
within a time period specified by the order.



3.   The WRA Director may issue enforceable orders or schedules to require
compliance with pretreatment standards including appropriate interim limits.
Such orders and schedules may be incorporated as a revision to an existing
wastewater discharge permit and shall not require the consent of the user.



100.38  ACTIONS AUTHORIZED.



Where there has been noncompliance with any provision of this chapter the WRA
Director may request the attorney representing the WRA or operating
contractor to bring an action in equity or at law to seek the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both or such other relief as may be
appropriate to compel compliance by the user with this chapter. In addition
to other remedies provided under this or other provisions of this chapter, in
any action brought to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the attorney is
authorized to seek to recover all actual damages suffered by the City or the
WRA, including all actual damages and losses related to costs of repair and
remediation of the POTW, costs of investigation and administration reasonably
related to any particular violation and attorney fees.



100.39  CIVIL PENALTIES.



1.   Each violation of any provision of this chapter or of a permit issued
under this chapter is declared to be a municipal infraction.  Each day that
a violation of a provision of this chapter continues and each day that a
violation of permit issued under this chapter continues shall be considered a
separate municipal infraction.



2.   Any person who knowingly makes a false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or a wastewater
discharge permit or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter
commits a municipal infraction, punishable by a civil penalty as provided in
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.



3.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by the provisions of
this chapter, or who commits an act prohibited by the provisions of this
chapter, commits an environmental violation and shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction, punishable by a civil penalty.  Violation of a
pretreatment standard or requirement referred to in 40 CFR 403.8 is an
environmental violation punishable by a civil penalty as provided in Chapter
4 of this Code of Ordinances.



100.40  PERFORMANCE BONDS.



The WRA Director may decline to reissue a permit to any user who has failed
to comply with the provision of this chapter or any order or previous permit
issued hereunder unless such user first files a satisfactory bond payable to
the WRA in a sum not to exceed the value determined by the WRA Director to be
necessary to achieve compliance giving due consideration to the number and
magnitude of previous violations, potential need for remediation and stating
the reasons which support the amount of bond in a written order directed to
the user, but in no case shall the bond be required to be greater than
$100,000.00. The user shall use a bond form prescribed by the WRA.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



100.41  REVOCATION OF PERMIT; TERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE.



1.   Conditions for Revocation and/or for Termination of Sewer Service.
Any user who violates this chapter, any condition of its wastewater discharge
permit, or any of the following, is subject to having its permit revoked
and/or its sewer service terminated in accordance with the procedures of this
section:



   A.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge; 



   B.   Failure of the user to report substantial changes in process
activity or in volume or character of pollutants being discharged into the
POTW at least 90 days prior to such change;   



   C.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;   



   D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; 



   E.   Violation of permit conditions; 



   F.   Failure to report an upset, failure, or bypass of user’s
pretreatment facilities;   



   G.   Failure to pay fines, fees, or sewer user charges; 



   H.   Failure to follow enforcement orders or compliance schedules; 
   



   I.   Failure to correct a condition that impedes or alters the
POTW’s ability to monitor the user’s discharge or has the potential to
cause interference or pass through;



   J.   Failure to obtain a wastewater discharge permit as required by
this chapter after notification by the WRA Director that such permit is
required.



2.   Procedures for Revocation and/or Termination of Sewer Service. 



   A.   Any permit issued to a user pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked, and sewer service terminated, by written order of the WRA Director,
specifying the grounds for such revocation and termination as outlined in
subsection 1 of this section, which order shall not take effect until hearing
thereon as hereinafter provided. Upon determining that grounds exist for an
order to revoke a user's discharge permit and terminate sewer service, the
WRA Director shall cause a notice of hearing to be prepared, specifying the
violations of subsection 1 of this section which are deemed to have occurred,
and the time, date and place that such hearing will be held. The notice shall
be sent to the user by regular mail addressed to the user's address listed on
the wastewater discharge permit a minimum of ten days prior to the date set
for hearing, and shall be deemed delivered when placed in the mail.



   B.   Sewer service may be terminated by written order of the WRA
director, specifying the grounds for such revocation and termination as
outlined in 1.J. of this section, which order shall not take effect until
hearing thereon as hereafter provided. Upon determining that grounds exist
for an order to terminate sewer service, the WRA director shall cause a
notice of hearing to be prepared, specifying the violation of 1.J. of this
section which is deemed to have occurred, and the time, date and place that
such hearing will be held. The notice shall be sent to the user by regular
mail addressed to the user's address a minimum of ten days prior to the date
set for hearing, and shall be deemed delivered when placed in the mail.



   C.   If, after such a hearing, the WRA Director makes a finding
based on substantial evidence that actions subject to revocation under
subsection 1 of this section have occurred as alleged, the Director may
revoke the permit if a permit had previously been issued, and terminate sewer
service to the user's premises. The determination of whether to revoke such
permit and terminate service shall be in the discretion of the WRA Director
and shall be dependent upon the circumstances surrounding violations by the
user subsection 1 of this section and their severity. If the user does not
appear for the hearing, the WRA Director shall issue the order revoking the
discharge permit and/or terminating sewer service, which shall take effect
immediately.



   D.   The decision and order of the WRA director to revoke the permit
of a user may be appealed to the WRA appeal committee. Such appeal request
shall be in writing, shall include the grounds for appeal including any
factual findings which are disputed, and shall be delivered to WRA not less
than 10 days after the director's entry of the order of revocation of permit
and/or termination of sewer service. Such appeal request shall be considered
delivered when placed in the mail, return receipt requested, addressed to:



      WRA Appeal Committee
      Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority
      3000 Vandalia Road
      Des Moines, Iowa 50317
   The chair of the appeal committee shall schedule the appeal and shall
cause notice of the time, date and place of the hearing to be mailed to the
appealing user. Such appeal shall be decided by majority vote of the appeal
committee. If the appeal committee affirms the order of the WRA director
revoking the permit and/or terminating sewer service, the appeal committee
shall so state and order in its written decision.



   E.   A user whose permit has been revoked shall not be eligible for
another permit until thirty (30) days after the violating conditions have
been corrected to the satisfaction of the WRA Director.



   F.   Upon determination by the WRA Director that the user's sewer
service connection to the POTW be terminated, the Director's written order
shall be sent to the City public works department, which shall cause the
user's connection to the sewer to be severed or plugged. The manner of
severage and procedure for disconnection shall be determined by the City
public works department. Upon completion of the disconnection, the City
public works department shall certify the City's cost to disconnect the
user's sewer service. Upon receipt of such certification of costs, the WRA
Director shall forward to the user whose service was disconnected, by
registered mail return receipt requested, by certified mail, or by personal
service, a bill for the cost of making the disconnection, including all costs
for labor and materials, and a service charge of $100.00 for WRA
supervision. 



   G.   Any building at which sewer service is disconnected as herein
provided shall be inspected by the City Building Official and if appropriate
shall be red-tagged as unfit for human occupancy.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



100.42  REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE.



In the event of severance of service, the service may be reinstated in the
following manner:



1.   Upon payment to the WRA of any delinquency in full, plus the cost of
the disconnection and the one hundred dollar ($100.00) supervision fee, and
an inspection by the WRA Director to determine whether the original cause for
termination has been corrected, the WRA will issue a permit for reconnection
of the building service line to the POTW.  Such reconnection costs, plus
inspection fees for the City in accordance with this Code, shall be at the
sole expense of the user.



2.   Upon reconnection and payment of all costs described above, the City
of Ankeny, through its agents, shall remove the red-tag from the building and
the building shall, so far as this chapter is concerned, be “fit for human
occupancy.”



100.43  EMERGENCY DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.



1.   Conditions for Immediate Disconnection of Service. The WRA Director
may, after informal notice, suspend the wastewater discharge permit and sewer
service to a user whenever such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge presenting or causing an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, the POTW, or
the environment.



2.   Procedures for Immediate Disconnection.



   A.   When the WRA Director determines that a discharge as described
in Section 1 exists, a verbal order shall be issued (followed immediately by
a written order) to the user stating the problem and requiring immediate
cessation of the discharge. Users verbally notified of a suspension of the
sewer service or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate all discharges. In the event of a user's failure to comply
immediately and voluntarily with the suspension order, the WRA Director shall
take immediate action to eliminate the discharge including disconnection from
the POTW.  Methods of informal notice to a user shall include, but not be
limited to, any of the following; personal conversations between user and
personnel of the WRA or its operating contractor, telephone calls, letters,
hand delivered messages or notices posted at the user's premises or point of
discharge.



   B.   Users responsible, in whole or in part, for imminent
endangerment shall submit a detailed written report describing the causes of
the endangerment and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to
the WRA Director prior to the hearing described in Section 100.41(2). 



100.44  ELIMINATION OF DISCHARGE; REINSTATEMENT.



Users notified of a disconnection of sewer service or revocation of its
discharge permit under Sections 100.41 or 100.43 shall immediately stop or
eliminate the discharge. In the event of a failure of the user to comply
voluntarily with the disconnection or revocation order, the City of Ankeny
shall take such steps as deemed necessary by the WRA, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection. The WRA Director shall reinstate the sewer
service or wastewater discharge permit upon proof of the elimination of the
non-complying discharge.



100.45  ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.



1.   In addition to remedies available to the WRA set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the WRA is fined by IDNR or EPA for violations of the NPDES
permit for the POTW or violations of water quality standards as the result of
a discharge of pollutants by identifiable user(s), then the fine, including
all legal, sampling, analytical testing costs and any other related costs
shall be charged to the responsible user(s). Such charge shall be in addition
to any other remedies the WRA may have under this chapter, at law or in
equity.



2.   If the discharge from any user results in a deposit, obstruction,
damage or other impairment to the POTW, the user shall become liable to the
City and/or the WRA for any expense, loss, or damage caused by the violations
or discharge. The WRA may add to the user's charges and fees the costs
incurred for any cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the
violations or discharge.



3.   The remedies provided in this chapter shall not be exclusive and the
WRA may seek whatever other remedies are authorized by statute, at law or in
equity against any persons violating the provisions of this chapter.



4.   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, the City
and/or the WRA may initiate an action, either in law or in equity, to obtain
an injunction against further violations of this chapter, and for judgment
for all costs incurred by the City and/or the WRA occasioned by the user’s
violation of any requirements of this chapter. 



100.46  NOTICES TO THE WRA, WRA BOARD, WRA DIRECTOR AND WRA APPEAL COMMITTEE.



Notices which are required to be given or which may be given to the WRA, the
WRA Board, the WRA Director or the WRA Appeal Committee, as provided in this
chapter, shall be mailed to such entity, body or person at the following
address:



c/o Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority



Des Moines Wastewater Reclamation Facility



3000 Vandalia Road



Des Moines, Iowa  50317



 



(Ch. 100 Amended by Ord. 1807 – July 14 Supp.)



Ankeny, IA, Iowa Code of Ordinances


CHAPTER 101
REGULATION OF FAT, OIL AND GREASE DISCHARGE BY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS



 



101.01  Purpose
 
101.10  Inspection of Grease Interceptors and Related Sewers and Equipment


101.02  Definitions
 
101.11  Inspection Fees


101.03  Effective Date of FOG Regulations
 
101.12  Enforcement


101.04  Grease Interceptor Installation Required After Effective Date
 
101.13  Notice of Violation; Administrative Penalties; Corrective Action
Order


101.05  Exemption from Grease Interceptor Installation Requirement for
Existing Facilities
 
101.14  Penalties


101.06  Compliance Procedures
 
101.15  Order to Cease Operation of Food Service Establishment


101.07  Installation of Grease Interceptors and Grease Traps
 
101.16  Appeal of Corrective Action Order or Cease and Desist Order


101.08  Operation, Maintenance and Cleaning of Grease Interceptors and
Grease Traps and Grease Hauler Certification
 
101.17  Additional Remedies


101.09  Records and Record Keeping
 




 



101.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from contribution and accumulation of fat, oil,
and grease (FOG) into the POTW.



Such discharges from commercial kitchens, restaurants, food processing
facilities and all other establishments, where fat, oil and grease (FOG) of
vegetable or animal origin are discharged directly or indirectly into the
POTW, can contribute to line blockages and/or spills in violation of Title
40, Code of Federal Regulations 40 CFR, Part 403.



101.02  DEFINITIONS.



The definitions found in Section 100.01 of this Code of Ordinances apply to
the provisions of this chapter; provided however, the following words, terms
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:



1.   “Best management practices” means and includes schedules of
activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the
State.  For purposes of this chapter, “best management practices”
includes procedures and practices that reduce the discharge of fat, oil and
grease (FOG) to the building sewer, to the City sanitary sewer system and to
the POTW.



2.   “Design liquid depth” means the maximum depth of liquid when the
tank is filled with water.



3.   “Effective date” means the date set forth in Section 101.03 upon
which the regulatory provisions of this chapter take effect.



4.   "Food Service Establishment" or "FSE" means an operation or
enterprise that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise
provides food for human consumption.  Such facilities may include, but are
not limited to, those that process meat or other food ingredients as an
intermediate step or for final human consumption, food service operations in
a summer camp, residential substance abuse treatment facility, halfway house,
correctional facility, school, restaurant, commercial kitchen, caterer,
church, hotel, bars, hospital, prison, care institution or similar facility.




(Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




5.   “Grease interceptor” means a tank that serves one or more
fixtures and is remotely located.  Grease interceptors include (but are not
limited to) tanks that capture wastewater from dishwashers, garbage
disposals, floor drains, pot and pan sinks and trenches as allowed by local
plumbing codes.  For purposes of this chapter, a grease interceptor is a
multi-compartment tank located underground outside of a building that reduces
the amount of FOG in wastewater prior to its discharge into the POTW.



6.   “Grease trap” means a device designed to retain grease from one
and up to a maximum of four fixtures.  Not all grease traps are approved by
the manufacturer for use on heated water (e.g., dishwasher) or in-line to a
waste disposal unit (e.g., garbage disposal and grinders).  For purposes of
this chapter, a grease trap is a small device located within a building.



7.   “Minimum design capability” means the design features of a grease
interceptor and its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and
retain greases from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the POTW.



8.   “Non-routine inspection” means an impromptu, unscheduled
inspection of a food service establishment made without prior notification or
arrangement.



9.   “Routine inspection” means an inspection of a food service
establishment which is scheduled in advance or according to a pre-arranged
schedule.



10.   “User,” as used in this chapter, has the same meaning as the
definition in Section 100.01, but also includes persons who discharge
wastewater to the POTW from mobile sources, such as mobile food vendors.



101.03  EFFECTIVE DATE OF FOG REGULATIONS.



The provisions of this chapter shall be effective on and after January 1,
2006.



101.04  GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION REQUIRED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE.



The owner of a building or facility in which an FSE is located, and the owner
or operator of an FSE shall be required to install an approved grease
interceptor, and to thereafter operate and maintain same as provided in this
division.




(Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




101.05 EXEMPTION FROM GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION REQUIREMENT FOR
EXISTING FACILITIES.



The requirements of Section 101.04 shall not apply to that portion of a
building or facility within which an FSE is in existence on the effective
date if:



1.   The FSE has an existing grease interceptor or grease trap in place as
of the effective date and provided that (a) the owner or occupant of the FSE
continues to use the interceptor or trap, (b) the interceptor or trap is of
sufficient capacity and design, and (c) the interceptor or trap is operated
and maintained so as to comply with FOG discharge limits; and



2.   Any repair, remodeling or renovation of the wastewater plumbing
system in the existing FSE involves only (a) the repair of leaks or the
clearing of stoppages in drains, soil, waste or vent piping, or (b) the
removal and reinstallation of a sink, toilet or hot water heater; provided
that such work does not involve replacement, rearrangement or moving of
wastewater pipes, floor sinks, drainage fixtures or grease traps; and



3.   None of the following conditions are present:



   A.   A building or facility exists on the effective date and is
thereafter expanded or renovated, or a portion thereof, to include an FSE
where such FSE did not previously exist; or



   B.   An FSE exists on the effective date within a building or
facility , or portion of a building or facility,  and application is
thereafter made for a building permit(s) for such building or facility with
valuation of $50,000 or more within a twelve (12) month period; or



   C.   A building or facility, or portion thereof, that contained an
FSE on the effective date but in which an FSE ceases to operate for one year
or more, as determined by Iowa Department of Inspections & Appeals, Food and
Consumer Safety Bureau records.




(Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




101.06  COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.



1.   After the effective date, any permitted construction under Section
101.04 shall be deemed compliant upon issuance of a certificate of compliance
or certificate of occupancy for such construction by the City Building
Official.



2.   An FSE shall be deemed compliant, unless the WRA director or local
building official or designee determines that an existing grease trap or
grease interceptor is incapable of adequately retaining FOG. In such cases,
the Director may order the FSE to install an adequate grease interceptor
within a specified time period if:



   A.   The FSE is found to contribute FOG in quantities above FOG
discharge limits; or



   B.   The FSE discharges necessitate increased maintenance on the
publicly owned treatment works (POTW) in order to keep stoppages from
occurring therein; or



   C.   The FSE's discharge to the POTW is at anytime determined to
exceed four hundred (400) mg/l total FOG. 



3.   An order directing an existing FSE or the owner or operator of the
FSE or the owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is located to
install a grease interceptor shall be in writing from the WRA Director in the
form of a notice of violation including a corrective action order, as
provided in section 118-488 of this division.



4.   FSEs or owners of buildings of facilities within which an FSE is
located which are unable to install or replace a grease interceptor due to
exceptional physical constraints or economic hardship may appeal to the WRA
director for approval of an alternative grease control technology by
requesting a hearing in accordance with the provisions of this division. Such
requests shall be submitted in writing and shall include detailed
descriptions of the FSE's physical or financial constraints and the
alternative grease control technology which it proposes to install and
utilize. 



   A.   In order to demonstrate exceptional economic hardship, the
owner or operator of the FSE shall submit to the WRA director balance sheets
and profit and loss statements for FSE for the preceding three (3) years. A
new FSE shall submit profit/loss projections or a detailed business plan with
projections for twenty-four (24) months.  Each request shall be evaluated on
a case-by-case basis.



   B.   Notwithstanding approval of alternative grease control
technology, when the WRA director determines that such alternative is not
performing adequately, the FSE or owner of the building or facility in which
the FSE is located shall be required to take additional grease control
measures, which may include the installation of a grease interceptor.



   C.   In order to demonstrate exceptional physical site constraints
preventing the installation of a grease interceptor, the owner or operator of
the FSE or owner of the building or facility in which the FSE is located
shall submit to the WRA director documentation and plats showing the location
of sanitary sewer and any private easements in relation to the building sewer
for the building housing the FSE, and showing available space inside or
outside the building and drawings of existing plumbing at or in a site that
uses common plumbing for all services at that site.



   D.   An FSE that is given an exemption from installing a properly
sized grease interceptor is prohibited from installing or using a dishwasher
or garbage disposal without approval of the director and must comply with the
conditions of such approval, if any.




(Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




101.07  INSTALLATION OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND GREASE TRAPS.



Grease interceptors and grease traps, when required, shall be installed as
follows:



1.   Grease interceptors and grease traps shall be installed at the
expense of the owner or operator of the FSE or owner of the building or
facility in which the FSE is located which is contributing wastewater to the
POTW.



2.   All wastewater streams containing FOG or reasonably likely to contain
FOG within FSEs or other FOG generating operations shall be directed into one
or more appropriately sized grease interceptor before discharge to the
POTW.  Grease interceptors shall be either sized by adding the peak design
flow rates for all fixtures leading to the grease interceptor and allowing a
minimum retention time of thirty (30) minutes or as follows:



Grease Interceptor Sizing
1.   Peak meals per hour
   a.   Seating capacity of FSE                      
    _________
   b.   Occupancy of FSE                         
    _________*
   c.   Seating or occupancy x meal factor of 1.3 (45 minute meal) or
1.0
      (intermittent-use FSEs) = Peak meals per hour
*Church: include all area(s) used for meal service
*Assisted Living / nursing facility:  equal to maximum number of residents
(per State license)
2.   Waste flow rate, gallons of flow
   a.   Commercial, equipped kitchen with dishwasher & one garbage
disposal*     7
   b.   Commercial, equipped kitchen with dishwasher, no garbage
disposal     6
   c.   Commercial, equipped kitchen with no dishwasher, one garbage
disposal*     6
   d.   Commercial, equipped kitchen with no dishwasher, no garbage
disposal     5
   e.   Single service
kitchen**                      2
* Each additional garbage disposal, add one (1) gallon
**Single service kitchen = no garbage disposal, no dishwasher and all service
is single use
3.   Retention time, hours
   a.   Commercial kitchen 
                         2.5
   b.   Single service kitchen
                      1.5
4.   Storage factor
   a.   Commercial Kitchen up to 8 hours of operation
             1
   b.   Commercial kitchen up to 12 hours of
operation             1.5
   c.   Commercial kitchen up to 16 hours of operation
             2
   d.   Commercial kitchen up to 20 hours of operation
             2.5
   e.   Commercial kitchen up to 24 hours of operation
             3
   d.   Single service kitchen
                      1.5

Peak Meals      Waste Flow      Retention        Storage
   Calculated
per Hour      X    Rate         X    Time      X   
Factor       =   Interceptor Size




(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)




3.   Concrete grease interceptors whether precast or poured in place,
shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with ASTM C 1613-08 Standard
Specification for Precast Concrete Grease Interceptor Tanks or IAPMO/ANSI
Z1001 Grease Interceptors and shall be installed in accordance with the codes
adopted by the jurisdiction in which the FSE is located. Where no code is
adopted, the construction and installation shall be in accordance with the
Iowa State Plumbing Code and this division.  Grease interceptors using
materials other than concrete require approval by the director, and shall
comply with the conditions of such approval, if any.



4.   The building official or other designated official of the
governmental subdivision within which the FSE is located shall inspect each
grease interceptor installation made pursuant to this division, shall review
all relevant information regarding the rated performance of the grease
interceptor, and the building plan and facility site plan for the building
and site where the grease interceptor has been installed, and shall approve
such grease interceptor installation upon determination that the grease
interceptor meets all applicable standards and requirements.



5.   Grease interceptors shall have a minimum capacity of one thousand
(1000) gallons and shall not exceed five thousand (5000) gallons for a single
unit.  Where a capacity greater than five thousand (5000) gallons is
required, several smaller units shall be installed in series; however, the
capacity shall not exceed ten thousand (10,000) gallons for any single series
of interceptors without approval of the director.




(Subsections 1-5 - Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




6.   Grease interceptors shall be installed outside the building housing
the food service establishment and below surface grade, and shall have access
manholes, with a minimum diameter of twenty-four (24) inches, over each
chamber and sanitary tee.  Access manholes shall extend from the grease
interceptor to at least the finished surface grade and be designed and
maintained to prevent storm or surface water inflow and groundwater
infiltration.  The manholes shall also have readily removable covers to
facilitate inspection and grease removal.



7.   Sewer lines which are not grease laden, which are not likely to
contain FOG, or which contain sanitary wastes shall not be connected to a
grease interceptor.



8.   Grease interceptors shall be equipped with an accessible discharge
sampling port with a minimum six-inch diameter, which shall extend from the
grease interceptor to at least the finished surface grade.



9.   Where grease interceptors are shared by more than one food service
establishment, the building owner shall be the responsible party for record
keeping and cleaning of the interceptor.



101.08  OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CLEANING OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND
GREASE TRAPS AND GREASE HAULER CERTIFICATION. 



1.   The owner or operator of an FSE which is required to pass wastewater
through a grease interceptor or trap shall operate and maintain the grease
interceptor or trap so that wastewater exiting the grease interceptor or trap
shall not exceed four hundred (400) milligrams per liter of FOG.



2.   The owner or operator of the FSE shall cause the grease interceptor
or trap to be level of the grease interceptor or trap, or sooner if necessary
to prevent carry over of FOG from the grease interceptor or trap into the
city sanitary sewer system. Interceptors and traps shall be cleaned at three
(3) month intervals or less. A longer cleaning interval must be approved by
the WRA Director. If the owner or operator of the FSE, or an employee of the
owner or operator, has a current grease hauler certification from the WRA
indicating satisfactory completion of the course of training offered by the
WRA on the cleaning of grease interceptors and traps, such person or persons
may clean the grease trap in the facility included in such grease hauler's
certification Failure to adequately clean the grease trap, properly dispose
of all grease trap waste, or maintain clean out records and measurements may
result in revocation of a grease hauler certification pursuant to Chapter 102
of this Code of Ordinances. Alternatively, the owner or operator of an FSE
may employ a waste hauler licensed by the WRA pursuant to Chapter 102 of this
Code of Ordinances to clean the grease interceptor or trap, provided that the
waste hauler personnel performing the cleaning has a current grease hauler
certification from the WRA indicating satisfactory completion of the course
of training offered by the WRA on the cleaning of grease interceptors and
traps.



3.   Any person who cleans a grease interceptor or trap shall do so in
accordance with the following procedures and requirements. The person
cleaning the grease interceptor or trap shall:



   A.   Completely empty and remove the contents (liquids and sludge)
of all vaults of the grease interceptor or trap, and remove the grease mat
and scrapings from the interior walls. As part of each cleaning of a grease
interceptor or trap, the owner or operator of the FSE, or the licensed waste
hauler employed by the FSE owner or operator, shall perform the following
maintenance activities:



      (1)   Check that the sanitary "tees" on the inlet and outlet
sides of the grease interceptor are not obstructed, loose, or missing.



      (2)   Verify that the baffle is secure and in place.



      (3)   Inspect the grease interceptor or trap for any cracks or
other defects.



      (4)   Check that lids are securely and properly seated after
completion of cleaning.



   B.   Not deposit waste and wastewater removed from a grease
interceptor or trap back into the grease interceptor or trap from which the
waste or wastewater was removed or into any other grease interceptor or trap,
for the purpose of reducing the volume of waste and wastewater to be disposed
of.



   C.   Not introduce enzymes, emulsifying chemicals, hot water or
other agents into a grease interceptor or trap to dissolve or emulsify grease
or as a grease abatement method. Introduction of bacteria as a grease
degradation agent is permitted with prior written approval by the WRA
director.



   D.   Dispose of waste and wastewater removed from a grease
interceptor or trap at the WRF or at a facility approved for disposal of such
waste by the WRA director. Waste and wastewater removed from a grease
interceptor or trap shall not be discharged to any private sanitary or storm
sewer or to the city sanitary or storm sewer system. The waste hauler shall
provide a copy of the disposal receipt for all waste and wastewater removed
from a grease interceptor or trap to the owner or operator of the FSE.



   E.   Not use an automatic grease removal system to clean a grease
interceptor without prior written approval of the WRA director, and if, the
use of an automatic grease removal system is approved, shall operate same in
a manner that the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
system's outlet, is consistently achieved.



4.   The WRA director may make exceptions to the above requirements, or
may approve alternative operational requirements or cleaning and maintenance
methods, provided that such exceptions or approvals shall be made in writing
by the WRA director.



5.   The WRA Director may issue a grease hauler certification upon
satisfactory completion of the course of training offered by the WRA on the
proper maintenance and cleaning of grease interceptors and traps, disposal
procedures and record keeping. Such certification shall be for a period of 5
years and shall be in effect for the person receiving such training and for
the FSE site for which such person is the owner, operator or employee thereof.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



101.09  RECORDS AND RECORD KEEPING.



1.   Required Records.  The owner or operator of a food service
establishment which is required to pass wastewater through a grease
interceptor or trap shall maintain a written record of grease interceptor or
trap maintenance, including a log showing the dates upon which the grease
interceptor or trap was inspected and the estimated amount of FOG present in
the grease interceptor or trap at each inspection, the date upon which waste
and wastewater were removed from the grease interceptor or trap and disposed
of, and the location and means of such disposal of waste and wastewater, and
the name and employer or the person or persons performing each of said
tasks.  The log shall further include a record of the placement of any
approved or unapproved additive into the grease interceptor, grease trap or
building sewer on a constant, regular or scheduled basis, including the type
and amount of additive placed on each such occasion.  Only additives
approved by the WRA Director pursuant to Section 101.08(3)(C) may be used in
a grease interceptor.



2.   Record Keeping.  The log shall at all times be kept and maintained
on a day-to-day basis so as to show a record of waste and wastewater removal,
waste and wastewater disposal and approved additive placement for a
continuous period of three (3) years.  All such records shall be kept secure
at the premises of the food service establishment for a continuous period of
three years and shall be made available for non-routine inspection by the
City, the WRA, and its operating contractor, or the employees and agents of
any of them at any time during normal business hours.



101.10  INSPECTION OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS AND RELATED SEWERS AND EQUIPMENT.



The owner or operator of an FSE shall:



1.   Provide, operate and maintain, at its expense, safe and accessible
monitoring facilities (such as a suitable manhole), and shall make such
monitoring facilities available for inspection, and for sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems.  There shall
be ample room in or near such monitoring facility to allow accurate sampling
and preparation of samples for analysis.



2.   Allow personnel authorized by the WRA Director or by the City
Building Official, bearing proper credentials and identification, to enter
upon or into any building, facility or property housing a food service
establishment at any reasonable time and without prior notification, for the
purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, testing or record
review, in accordance with this chapter.



3.   Upon request by the WRA director's authorized representative, open
any grease interceptor or grease trap for the purpose of confirming that
maintenance frequency is appropriate, that all necessary parts of the
installation are in place including, but not limited to, baffles and effluent
tees, and that all grease interceptors, traps, and related equipment and
piping is maintained in efficient operating condition.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



4.   Accommodate compliance inspections and sampling events by the
authorized representatives of the WRA Director or of the City Building
Official.  Staff may conduct routine inspections and sampling events of any
food service establishment.  Non-routine inspection and sampling events
shall occur more frequently when there is a history of non-compliance with
this chapter and when blockages occur in the City's sanitary sewer system
downstream of the food service establishment.




(Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




101.11  INSPECTION FEES.



The fees for inspection of an FSE shall be as provided in Section 100.18 and
shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice for such
fees.




(Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




101.12  ENFORCEMENT.



The WRA Director is authorized to enforce this chapter as hereinafter
provided.  The City Building Official, or such other governmental official
designated by the WRA, is also authorized to enforce this chapter.



101.13  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES; CORRECTIVE ACTION
ORDER.



1.   The Director or such other designated officers or officials with
enforcement authority as provided in Section 101.12 are authorized to issue a
notice of violation imposing an administrative penalty upon any person who
fails to perform an act required by this chapter or who commits an act
prohibited by this chapter.  Such notice may include a corrective action
order requiring the user to take one or more of the following corrective
actions within thirty (30) days:



   A.   Conform to best management practices;



   B.   Submit copies of the grease interceptor or grease trap
maintenance log;



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



   C.   Develop, submit and implement a FOG compliance plan to be
approved by the Director or designated enforcement official; or



   D.   Install a compliant grease interceptor.



2.   The administrative penalty for such violations shall be as provided
in the schedule of administrative penalties adopted by the City Council by
resolution.



3.   Notice of violation, with the applicable penalty for such violation
noted thereon, shall be issued to and served upon the violator.  Service of
the notice may be by regular mail or by delivery in person.



4.   Penalties assessed pursuant to notice of violation shall be paid by
the violator in full as directed in the notice within thirty (30) days of its
issuance.



5.   The administrative penalties set out in the schedule of
administrative penalties shall be charged in lieu of the fines and penalties
provided for in Section 101.14, unless the violator refuses to correct the
violation and pay the scheduled administrative penalty, or the WRA Director
determines that immediate enforcement action by misdemeanor or municipal
infraction prosecution is, in view of the particular circumstances of the
case, necessary to achieve compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.  A record of all violations, administrative penalties charged or
other enforcement actions taken shall be maintained by the WRA for a period
of three years.



101.14  PENALTIES.



1.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by this chapter or
who commits an act prohibited by this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment, or shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction punishable by a civil penalty.



2.   Any person who fails to comply with a pretreatment standard
applicable to an FSE shall be guilty of a municipal infraction punishable by
a civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars for each day the
violation exists or continues, as provided by Section 364.22 or 331.307 of
the Iowa Code.




(Ord. 1662 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




3.   When enforcement is sought through a municipal infraction proceeding,
the Director or such other designated officers or officials with enforcement
authority as provided in Section 101.12 may enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with the user responsible for noncompliance.  Such orders will
include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the order.



101.15  ORDER TO CEASE OPERATION OF FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.



1.   Where a violation of this chapter has not been timely corrected, and
results in or threatens interference or pass through as defined in Chapter
100 of this Code of Ordinances, the WRA Director, or such other designated
officers or officials with enforcement authority as provided in Section
101.12 shall have the authority to issue an order in writing to the owner or
operator of the food service establishment, ordering such person or persons
to cease and desist from further operation of the food service establishment
and from further discharge of wastewater to the sanitary sewer system.  The
order shall be delivered by personal service unless the owner or operator
cannot be found within the City, in which event notice shall be by ordinary
mail addressed to the owner’s or operator’s last known address and by
posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place upon the premises of the
food service establishment.



2.   Operation of the food service establishment shall cease on the date
stated in the order and shall not recommence without the prior written
approval of the WRA Director.



3.   The applicant may make a written request to the Director for a
reconsideration and hearing on the cease and desist order within ten (10)
days from the issuance of the order, provided, however, that operation of the
food service establishment shall cease, pending the outcome of the hearing.



4.   The owner’s or operator’s request for hearing shall identify the
appealing party, include the address of the person requesting the hearing and
to which all further notices shall be mailed or served, and shall state the
basis for the appeal.



5.   The hearing shall be scheduled to be held as soon as practicable and
no later than fourteen (14) days after the request for hearing was filed with
the WRA Director.  The person requesting the hearing shall be notified in
writing or by telephone of the date and place of such hearing at least three
(3) days in advance thereof.  At such hearing the Director and the person
requesting the hearing may be represented by counsel, examine witnesses, and
present evidence as necessary.



6.   The determination by the Director that the violation occurred shall
be considered a final administrative decision, unless appealed to the WRA.



101.16  APPEAL OF CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER OR CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.



1.   Any person aggrieved by a corrective action order or a cease and
desist order issued by the WRA Director or by such other designated officers
or officials with enforcement authority as provided in Section 101.12, may
file an appeal and request a ruling that such order be modified or rescinded.



2.   Such appeal request shall be in writing, shall include the grounds
for appeal including any factual findings which are disputed, and shall be
delivered to the WRA within ten (10) days after the WRA director's issuance
of the order.  Such appeal request shall be considered delivered when placed
in the mail, return receipt requested, addressed to:



   WRA Appeal Committee



   Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority



   3000 Vandalia Road



   Des Moines, Iowa 50317




(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)




3.   The chair of the Appeal Committee shall schedule the appeal and shall
cause notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing to be mailed to the
appealing party.  Such appeal shall be decided by majority vote of the
Appeal Committee.  The Appeal Committee may affirm, modify or rescind the
order of the Director and shall so state and order in its written decision.



101.17  ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.



The WRA or the City is not precluded from seeking alternative relief from the
court, including an order for abatement or injunctive relief or for recovery
of investigational or remedial costs resulting from a non-complying
discharge, in the event that the WRA or the City files a misdemeanor
citation, notice of administrative penalty, and/or files a municipal
infraction for the same violation of this chapter.



CHAPTER 102
REGULATION OF HAULED WASTE



 



102.01  Definitions
 
102.09  Rejection of Waste Loads


102.02  License
 
102.10  Treatment Fees for Hauled Wastes


102.03  Issuance of License
 
102.11  Enforcement


102.04  Standards for Vehicles and Equipment
 
102.12  Notice of Violation; Administrative Penalties; Corrective Action
Order


102.05  Disposal
 
102.13  Penalties


102.06  Identification of Source
 
102.14  Denial, Suspension and Revocation of License


102.07  Mixing Wastes
 
102.15  Alternative Relief


102.08  Standards of Disposal at WRF
 




 



102.01  DEFINITIONS.



The definitions found in Section 100.01 and 101.02 of this Code of Ordinances
apply to the provisions of this chapter; provided however, the following
words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
a different meaning:



1.   "Vehicle" means a commercial device equipped with a tank and used to
remove or transport waste.



2.   "Waste" means human excreta, water, scum, sludge, septage, FOG, food
waste or grease solids, and non-hazardous industrial wastewaters and solids
removed from public and private wastewater disposal systems, holding tanks,
impervious vaults, portable or chemical toilets, or from devices used to trap
grease resulting from food preparation. "Waste" also means liquid wastes
resulting from spill clean-up.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



102.02  LICENSE.



No waste hauler shall remove waste from within the corporate limits of the
City or dispose of waste, whether from a source inside or outside the
corporate limits, into the POTW without first obtaining a waste hauler
license from the WRA, with the following exceptions:



1.   WRA participating communities that operate vehicles to remove waste
from municipal sewer systems.



2.   Waste haulers hired by WRA participating communities to remove waste
from municipal sewer systems and which bring no other wastes to the WRF.



3.   Waste haulers utilized by industrial users issued a wastewater
discharge permit by the WRA.



4.   Waste haulers granted temporary authorization by the WRA Director in
order to deal with an emergency.



102.03  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.



The waste hauler’s license shall be issued by the WRA Director upon written
application that shall consist of the following minimum requirements:



1.   Inspection.  The WRA Director, upon application, shall inspect the
trucks, hoses, valves, and associated equipment of the applicant for a waste
hauler’s license and determine if said applicant meets the minimum
qualifications for complying with the conditions of this chapter.



2.   License Fee and Bond.  An application shall require the payment of a
fee of $60.00 for each vehicle used by the applicant and the posting of a
bond with reasonable surety in the penal sum of $10,000.00 for the faithful
compliance with this chapter, including prompt payment of fees, fines and
damages.  WRA participating communities that contract with waste haulers in
order to clean and rehabilitate storm and sanitary sewers owned by the
community or that own and operate waste hauling vehicles may provide proof of
self-insurance or provide a letter guaranteeing payment of up to $10,000.00
in lieu of providing a surety bond.



3.   Renewal.  A waste hauler license shall expire on June 30 next after
its issuance.  The renewal application must be made in the same manner as
the initial application and must be received by the Director 30 days prior to
expiration.  Failure to apply 30 days prior to expiration may result in an
interruption in the license and the privileges of such license.



4.   Transferability.  Waste hauler licenses are not transferable.



102.04  STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.



As to all vehicles and equipment used by a waste hauler, the licensee shall:



1.   Prevent waste and wastewater from leaking, spilling, or discharging
onto roads or rights-of-way.



2.   Ensure proper construction and repair of the equipment to allow
cleaning.



3.   Maintain vehicles and equipment in an essentially rust-free and
sanitary condition and appearance.



4.   Display the business name as it appears on the waste hauler license
in three-inch or larger letters on the left and right sides of the vehicle.



102.05  DISPOSAL.



Waste haulers shall dispose of hauled wastes permitted herein according to
rules for land application as found in Chapter 65, Chapter 69, and Chapter
121 of the Iowa Administrative Code or at a location designated by the WRA
Director.  Hours of operation at the WRF disposal station shall be set by
the WRA Director.  Special arrangements between the waste hauler and the WRA
Director shall be allowed to permit response to emergency conditions.  Waste
haulers shall maintain the designated disposal location in a clean and
orderly condition to avoid noxious odors and unsanitary conditions.



102.06  IDENTIFICATION OF SOURCE.



Waste haulers must document the nature and origin of wastes collected and the
site and method of disposal for wastes that are removed from City locations
or are delivered to the WRF.



Such information shall be provided on a manifest form provided by the WRA
Director.  The manifest shall also include:



1.   The name, address and phone number of the waste generator;



2.   The type of waste collected;



3.   The approximate volume of the load;



4.   Any other information consistent with identification and tracking of
wastes. 



The WRA Director shall have the right to verify all information required by
this section, including the right to measure, sample and analyze any waste
regulated by this or other applicable chapters of this Code of Ordinances. 
The waste hauler shall obtain approval from the WRA Director prior to loading
wastes originating from an industrial/commercial source unless prior approval
is on record with the WRA.



102.07  MIXING WASTES.



1.   For the purposes of this chapter, wastes from residential and
nonresidential sources shall not be mixed.  Wastes from an
industrial/commercial source shall not be mixed with wastes of any type from
another location.  Portable toilet and food service establishment grease
trap wastes may be mixed with similar wastes from different locations. 
Residential wastes from several sources may be mixed as long as each source
is identified.



2.   Any tanks or equipment used for hauling waste to the WRF shall not be
used for hauling hazardous wastes or hazardous substances, as defined in Iowa
Code Section 567.1 et seq., Chapter 131 of the Iowa Administrative Code and
in 40 CFR 261, or other wastes detrimental to the WRF.



102.08  STANDARDS OF DISPOSAL AT WRF.



Under this chapter, disposal of wastes at the WRF shall be carried out in
accordance with pretreatment standards and requirements established by
Federal, State, County and City governments including categorical standards
developed for the waste generator’s industrial category.  The WRA Director
may reject wastes from waste haulers who do not comply with this chapter or
with any other applicable chapter of this Code of Ordinances.  Waste haulers
shall not deliver wastes to the WRF, or to any other disposal location
approved by the WRA Director which are:



1.   Prohibited by Section 100.08 or exceed the limits found in subsection
100.09(3)(D) and Sections 100.10 and 100.11 of this Code of Ordinances.



2.   Hazardous wastes or hazardous substances as defined in 40 CFR Part
261 or 567 IAC, Chapter 131.



3.   Originate from mineral oil unless first treated to remove the oil and
grease.



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



4.   Not completely identified or are from industrial/commercial sources
that are not approved by the Director as required in Section 102.06.



5.   Mixed in a manner prohibited in Section 102.07.



6.   Wastes other than residential from outside the WRA, except through
requests to the Director.



102.09  REJECTION OF WASTE LOADS.



The WRA Director may reject any hauled waste load that violates or is
suspected of violating the requirements of this chapter or other applicable
chapter of this Code of Ordinances or that fails to meet any other guidelines
established by the WRA Director to protect personnel, equipment, and the WRF.



Waste haulers must:



1.   Remove rejected waste from the WRF.



2.   Immediately remove any additional wastes contaminated by the rejected
waste while contained at the WRF prior to introduction into the sewer.



3.   Properly dispose of all rejected wastes in accordance with State and
Federal law.



4.   Provide the WRA Director with a written statement, signed by the
waste hauler license holder, stating the location, date, and time the
rejected load was disposed of.  The statement is due within five calendar
days after the waste is rejected.



A vehicle used to haul rejected wastes shall not thereafter be allowed to
dispose of additional wastes at the WRF until the statement required by this
section is delivered to the WRA Director.



102.10  TREATMENT FEES FOR HAULED WASTES.



1.   A treatment fee shall be charged per pound of hauled waste received
at the WRF for all wastes originating within WRA participating communities
which are treated through the headworks at the WRF using all treatment
processes at the WRF, which fee shall be equal to the cost of disposal and
treatment of an equivalent volume and mass of pollutants otherwise delivered
into the POTW.



The treatment fee shall include:  (i) the volume charge component; (ii) a
treatment surcharge component for each pollutant as found in Section 100.18
of this Code of Ordinances; and (iii) a program cost component.  The program
cost component shall be calculated by dividing the annual administrative
costs of the waste hauler program by the total gallons of hauled waste
treated in the previous calendar year.  The surcharge component shall be
calculated using the average concentration of pollutants found in hauled
wastes delivered to the wastewater reclamation facility.  The treatment
surcharge and program cost components shall be reviewed and updated annually
based on the most recent data collected by the operating agency.  The
treatment fee for loads originating outside the corporate limits of the WRA
participating communities shall be 1.5 times the fee for loads originating
within the WRA participating communities.



2.   A treatment fee shall be charged for hauled wastes originating within
the corporate limits of the WRA participating communities which are treated
using only a portion of the treatment processes at the WRF, which fee shall
be calculated to recover the cost of treatment.  The cost of treatment shall
include electrical, chemical, personnel, and any capital costs associated
with the treatment processes utilized, and a program cost component which
shall be calculated by dividing the annual administrative costs of the waste
hauler program associated with partial process treatment by the total gallons
of hauled waste treated using only a portion of the treatment processes in
the previous calendar year.  Treatment costs shall be reviewed and updated
annually based on the most recent data collected by the operating agency. 
The treatment fee for loads originating outside the corporate limits of the
WRA participating communities shall be 1.5 times the fee for loads
originating within the WRA participating communities.



3.   Fees shall be computed and recorded at the disposal station and shall
be paid by the waste hauler on the basis of monthly billings by the finance
department.  Limits of credit shall not exceed 60 days.  Abuse of such
credit shall be grounds for liability on the waste hauler’s bond and for
refusal of disposal services to any waste hauler under this chapter.



4.   Waste haulers may elect to have their loads tested for actual
concentration at their expense as set out in Section 100.18.  When a waste
hauler has elected to have loads tested for actual concentration, the
treatment fee will be based on the actual concentration whether it be higher
or lower than the average concentration treatment fee.  Said testing will be
done at least once a month or more often as required by the WRA Director.



102.11  ENFORCEMENT.



The WRA Director, the City Building Official, or such other governmental
official hereafter designated by the WRA, shall be authorized to enforce this
chapter as hereinafter provided.



102.12  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES; CORRECTIVE ACTION
ORDER.



1.   The Director or such other designated officers or officials with
enforcement authority as provided in Section 102.11 are authorized to issue a
notice of violation imposing an administrative penalty upon any person who
fails to perform an act required by this chapter or who commits an act
prohibited by this chapter.



2.   The administrative penalty for such violations shall be as provided
in the schedule of administrative penalties adopted by the Council by
resolution.



3.   Notice of violation, with the applicable penalty for such violation
noted thereon, shall be issued to and served upon the violator.  Service of
the notice may be by regular mail or by delivery in person.



4.   Penalties assessed pursuant to notice of violation shall be paid by
the violator in full as directed in the notice within thirty (30) days of its
issuance.



5.   The administrative penalties set out in the schedule of
administrative penalties shall be charged in lieu of the fines and penalties
provided for in Section 102.13, unless the violator refuses to correct the
violation and pay the scheduled administrative penalty, or the WRA Director
determines that immediate enforcement action by misdemeanor or municipal
infraction prosecution is, in view of the particular circumstances of the
case, necessary to achieve compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.  The WRA shall maintain a record of all violations, administrative
penalties charged or other enforcement actions taken.



102.13  PENALTIES.



1.   Any person who fails to perform an act required by this chapter or
who commits an act prohibited by this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment, or shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction punishable by a civil penalty as provided in Chapter 4
of this Code of Ordinances.



2.   Any person who violates a discharge prohibition set forth in Section
100.08, or discharges in excess of local limits as set forth in Section
100.09, shall be guilty of an environmental violation punishable as provided
by Section 364.22 of the Iowa Code.



102.14  DENIAL, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.



1.   Grounds for Denial, Suspension or Revocation of Waste Hauler
License.  The WRA director may deny, suspend or revoke the waste hauler
license and/or grease hauler certification of any waste hauler who violates
any provision of this division or any condition of its license, or who
commits any of the following violations, or who does not meet the following
requirements:



(Ord. 1959 - Feb. 19 Supp.)



   A.   Violation of any term, condition or requirement of this
chapter, the license, or other applicable provisions of this Code of
Ordinances, applicable State of Iowa or Federal laws or regulations.



   B.   Obtaining a license by misrepresentation.



   C.   Falsification of, failure to complete or failure to fully
disclose all relevant facts in a license application.



   D.   Failure to pay fees, administrative penalties, or fines.



   E.   Failure to report a spill to the WRA.



   F.   Using wash down water or otherwise diluting the permitted waste
for the purpose of meeting discharge limitations or requirements.



   G.   Falsification of, failure to complete or failure to fully
disclose all relevant facts in any report, manifest information or record
required by the license or this chapter.



   H.   Tampering with samples or sampling equipment intended to
accurately reflect the contents of each hauled waste load.



   I.   Refusing to allow WRA personnel timely access to the waste
hauler’s facility premises, vehicles, or records.



   J.   Failure to perform as required under a corrective action order
or compliance schedule issued by the WRA Director.



   K.   Failure to correct any violation of this chapter or other
applicable provisions of this Code of Ordinances within 30 days after notice
by the WRA Director.



   L.   Failure to immediately correct any violation of this chapter or
other applicable provisions of this Code of Ordinances if the condition
constituting the violation is declared a threat to public health, safety or
welfare by the WRA Director and the Director orders immediate correction.



2.   Procedure for Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of Waste Hauler
License.  The procedure for denial, suspension or revocation of a waste
hauler license shall be as follows:



   A.   Any license issued to a waste hauler pursuant to this chapter
may be denied, suspended, or revoked by written order of the WRA Director
specifying the grounds for such action as outlined in subsection 1 of this
section, which order shall not take effect until hearing thereon as
hereinafter provided.  Upon determining that grounds exist for an order to
deny, suspend or revoke a waste hauler license, the WRA Director shall cause
a notice of hearing to be prepared, specifying the violations of subsection 1
of this section which are deemed to have occurred, and the time, date and
place that such hearing will be held.  The notice shall be sent to the waste
hauler by regular mail addressed to the waste hauler’s address listed on
the waste hauler’s license a minimum of ten days prior to the date set for
hearing, and shall be deemed delivered when placed in the mail.



   B.   If after such a hearing the WRA Director makes a finding based
on substantial evidence that one or more violations under subsection 1 of
this section have occurred as alleged, the Director may deny issuance of the
license, suspend the license for a fixed period, or may issue an order
immediately revoking the license and ordering the waste hauler to discontinue
hauling waste to the WRF or any other disposal locations approved by the
Director.  The determination of whether to deny issuance of a license to
suspend a license, or to revoke a license shall be in the discretion of
Director and shall be dependent upon the circumstances surrounding the
violations of subsection 1 of this section and the severity of those
violations.  If the waste hauler does not appear for the hearing, the
Director shall issue the order revoking the waste hauler license and ordering
the cessation of delivery of hauled waste at the WRF or any other disposal
locations approved by the Director, which order shall take effect immediately.



   C.   The decision and order of the WRA Director to deny issuance, to
suspend or to revoke the license of a waste hauler may be appealed to the WRA
Appeal Committee.  Such appeal request shall be in writing, shall include
the grounds for appeal including any factual findings which are disputed, and
shall be delivered to WRA not less than 10 days after the Director’s entry
of the order of denial, suspension or revocation.  Such appeal request shall
be considered delivered when placed in the mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to:



   WRA Appeal Committee



   c/o Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority



   3000 Vandalia Road



   Des Moines, Iowa 50317



   D.   The chair of the Appeal Committee shall schedule the appeal and
shall cause notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing to be mailed
to the appealing party.  Such appeal shall be decided by majority vote of
the Appeal Committee.  If the Appeal Committee affirms the order of the WRA
Director denying issuance, suspending or revoking the license and ordering
the cessation of waste deliveries at the WRF or other approved locations, the
Appeal Committee shall so state and order in its written decision.



A waste hauler whose license has been denied or revoked shall not be eligible
for issuance or reinstatement of its license until 30 days after the
violating conditions have been corrected to the satisfaction of the Director.



102.15  ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.



Neither the WRA nor the City is precluded from seeking alternative relief
from the court, including an order for abatement or injunctive relief, in the
event that the WRA or the City files a misdemeanor citation, notice of
administrative penalty, and/or files a municipal infraction for the same
violation of this chapter, or in the event the WRA seeks to deny, suspend or
revoke the waste hauler’s license.



CHAPTER 105
ILLICIT DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWER SYSTEM



 

105.01  Purpose
 
105.07  Detection and Reporting; Cost Recovery


105.02  MS4 Permit
 
105.08  Suspension of Access to Storm Sewer System


105.03  Definitions
 
105.09  Watercourse Protection


105.04  Illicit Discharges Prohibited
 
105.10  Enforcement


105.05  Illicit Connections Prohibited
 
105.11  Appeal


105.06  Industrial Discharges
 



 



105.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to comply with the requirements of the U.S.
EPA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit
program (the “Program”) administered by the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) by adopting and enforcing regulations regarding illicit
discharge to the City’s storm sewer system.  The City shall fund
operations under this chapter entirely by charges imposed on the owners of
properties which are made subject to the Program by virtue of State and
Federal law, and/or other sources of funding established by separate
ordinance. 



105.02  MS4 PERMIT.



The City has obtained a permit for the discharge of storm water from a
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4 permit) from the IDNR.  Said
permit is on file at the Stormwater Utility office and is available for
public inspection during regular office hours.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



105.03  DEFINITIONS.



Terms used in this chapter have the meanings specified in the Program.  As
used in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   An “illicit connection” to the City’s storm sewer system is any
physical connection or other topographical or other condition, natural or
artificial, which is not specifically authorized by ordinance or written rule
of the City, which causes or facilitates, directly or indirectly, an illicit
discharge.



2.   "Municipal separate storm sewer system" or "MS4" means the conveyance
or system of conveyances including storm sewers, roadways, roads with
drainage systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, constructed channels
and storm drains owned or operated by the City of Ankeny. 




(Ord. 1661 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




3.   "Property" includes but is not limited to real estate, fixtures,
facilities, and premises of any kind located upon, under, or above the real
estate.



4.   "Responsible party" means one or more persons that control or are in
possession of or own property.  Responsible parties shall be jointly and
severally responsible for compliance with this chapter and jointly and
severally liable for any illicit discharge from the property controlled,
possessed, or owned. 



105.04  ILLICIT DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.



1.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to relieve a responsible
party subject to an IDNR-issued industrial discharge permit or any other
Federal, State or City permit, statute, ordinance or rule from any obligation
imposed by such permit, statute, ordinance, or rule if any such obligation is
greater than any obligation imposed by this chapter.



2.   Any discharge into the City’s storm sewer system prohibited by the
City’s MS4 permit, the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference,
shall be deemed an “illicit discharge” in violation of this chapter.



3.   Sediment pollution originating from excessive erosion rates on a
construction site or sediment pollution entering a municipal storm sewer that
causes a water quality violation as determined by the IDNR shall be deemed an
illicit discharge in violation of this chapter.



4.   The following discharges are not authorized and shall be deemed an
illicit discharge in violation of this chapter.



   A.   Floor drains directed to the storm water system shall be
considered discharges even if no actual pollutants are observed entering the
system from such a source.



   B.   Solvents; detergents or other surfactants; and spills or leaks
of toxic or hazardous materials; fertilizers; pesticides; and waste products
such as ashes, slag and sludge.



   C.   Solid waste, litter, animal waste and landscape waste,
including significant quantities of leaves and grass clippings deposited or
placed along streams, ponds, channels, or on sidewalks, street right of ways
or other public property subject to runoff or otherwise discharged to the
storm water system.




(Ord. 1661 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




105.05  ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.



The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of any illicit
connection shall constitute a violation of this chapter.  This prohibition
expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past,
regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices
applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.



105.06  INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES.



Any responsible party subject an industrial NPDES discharge permit issued by
the IDNR shall comply with all provisions of such permit.  Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
enforcement officer prior to discharges to the storm sewer system authorized
by said permit.



105.07  DETECTION AND REPORTING; COST RECOVERY.



1.   All detection activities permitted under this chapter shall be
conducted by the City Public Works Director, herein referred to as the
“enforcement officer.”



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



2.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to persons or property of an illicit discharge, or circumstances
which may cause an illicit discharge, undetected by the City.



3.   Every responsible party has an absolute duty to monitor conditions on
property owned or controlled by them, to prevent all illicit discharges, and
to report to the enforcement officer illicit discharges which the responsible
party knows or should have known to have occurred.  Failure to comply with
any provision of this chapter is a violation of this chapter.



   A.   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any
responsible party has information of any known or suspected illicit
discharge, the responsible party shall immediately take all necessary steps
to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such discharge at the
responsible party’s sole cost.



   B.   If the illicit discharge consists of hazardous materials, the
responsible party shall also immediately notify emergency response agencies
of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services.



   C.   If the illicit discharge emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken
to prevent its recurrence.  Such records shall be retained for at least
three years.



   D.   A report of an illicit discharge shall be made in person or by
phone or facsimile or email to the enforcement officer immediately but in any
event within twenty-four (24) hours of the illicit discharge; notifications
in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and
mailed or emailed to the enforcement officer within twenty-four (24) hours of
the personal or phone notice.



4.   Any person or entity shall also report to the City any illicit
discharge or circumstances which such person or entity reasonably believes
pose a risk of an illicit discharge.



5.   Upon receiving a report pursuant to the previous subsections, or
otherwise coming into possession of information indicating an actual or
imminent illicit discharge, the enforcement officer shall conduct an
inspection of the site as soon as reasonably possible and thereafter shall
provide to the responsible party, and any third party reporter, a written
report of the conditions which may cause or which have already caused an
illicit discharge.  The responsible party shall immediately commence
corrective action or remediation and shall complete such corrective action or
remediation within twenty-four (24) hours, or as otherwise directed by the
enforcement officer.




(Ord. 1661 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




6.   The enforcement officer shall be permitted to enter and inspect
property subject to regulation under this chapter as often as is necessary to
determine compliance.  If a responsible party has security measures that
require identification and clearance before entry to its property or
premises, the responsible party shall make the necessary arrangements to
allow access by the enforcement officer.  By way of specification but not
limitation:



   A.   A responsible party shall allow the enforcement officer ready
access to all parts of the property for purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records related to a suspected, actual, or
imminent illicit discharge, and for the performance of any additional duties
as defined by State and Federal law.



   B.   The enforcement officer shall have the right to set up on any
property such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the enforcement
officer to conduct monitoring and/or sampling related to a suspected, actual
or imminent illicit discharge.



   C.   The enforcement officer shall have the right to require any
responsible party at responsible party’s sole expense to install monitoring
equipment and deliver monitoring data or reports to the enforcement officer
as the enforcement officer directs.  The sampling and monitoring equipment
shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by
the responsible party at responsible party’s sole expense.  All devices
shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.



   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access
to property to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
responsible party at the written or oral order of the enforcement officer and
shall not be replaced.  The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the responsible party.



   E.   An unreasonable delay in allowing the enforcement officer
access to a property is a violation of this chapter.



   F.   If the enforcement officer has been refused access to any part
of the property from an illicit connection and/or illicit discharge to a
municipal storm sewer is occurring, suspected or imminent, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public
health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the enforcement officer
may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent
jurisdiction.



7.   If it is determined that an illicit discharge is imminent or has
occurred, the actual administrative and remediation costs incurred by the
City in the enforcement of this chapter shall be recovered from the
responsible party.  The enforcement officer shall submit an invoice to the
responsible party reflecting the actual costs and wages and expenses incurred
by the City for the enforcement activities undertaken.  Failure to pay
charges invoiced under this chapter within thirty (30) days of billing shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.




(Ord. 1661 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




105.08  SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO STORM SEWER SYSTEM.



1.   Emergency Suspension.  The enforcement officer may, without prior
notice, suspend storm sewer system access to a property when such emergency
suspension is necessary to stop an ongoing or imminent illicit discharge. 
If the responsible party fails to immediately comply with an emergency
suspension order, the enforcement officer shall take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent, minimize, or remediate the illicit discharge.  All
costs of such action shall be recovered from the responsible party for the
property identified as the source of the illicit discharge.




(Ord. 1661 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




2.   Non-Emergency Suspension.  If the enforcement officer detects or is
informed of circumstances which could cause an illicit discharge but such
illicit discharge is not ongoing or imminent, and if the suspension of storm
sewer system access would reasonably be expected to prevent or reduce the
potential illicit discharge, the enforcement officer shall notify the
responsible party of the proposed suspension of storm sewer system access and
the time and date of such suspension.  Notice to one responsible party for
the property shall be sufficient notice to all.  Remediation of the
circumstances shall avoid a violation of this chapter, provided that no
illicit discharge occurs.  In the alternative, the responsible party may
request a meeting with the enforcement officer for the purpose of presenting
information which the responsible party believes will show that remediation
is unnecessary, and if the enforcement officer finds such information is
satisfactory, the enforcement officer may rescind or modify the notice of
suspension.  If the enforcement officer finds such information
unsatisfactory, the enforcement officer shall issue a final written order of
suspension including the date and time of suspension and such order may be
appealed as provided herein.  Any physical action to reinstate storm sewer
system access to property subject to such order prior to obtaining a court
order of relief shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.  An order of
suspension shall not preclude charging the responsible party with a municipal
infraction as provided herein or taking any other enforcement action
permitted by statute or ordinance.



105.09  WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.



Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, grass clippings or other organic wastes
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly alter
the quality of water flowing through the watercourse.  In addition, the
owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or
adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard
to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.




(Ord. 1661 - Jul. 10 Supp.)




105.10  ENFORCEMENT.



Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil action
including an action for injunctive relief.  In any civil enforcement action,
administrative or judicial, the City shall be entitled to recover its
attorneys’ fees and costs from a person who is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.  Violation of any
provision of this chapter may also be enforced as a municipal infraction
within the meaning of Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa, pursuant to Chapter
4 of this Code of Ordinances.  Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be
undertaken by the enforcement officer upon the advice and consent of the City
Attorney.



105.11  APPEAL.



Administrative decisions by City staff and enforcement actions of the
enforcement officer may be appealed by the applicant to the Council pursuant
to the following rules:



1.   The appeal must be filed in writing with the City Clerk within five
(5) business days of the decision or enforcement action.



2.   The written appeal shall specify in detail the action appealed from,
the errors allegedly made by the enforcement officer giving rise to the
appeal, a written summary of all oral and written testimony the applicant
intends to introduce at the hearing, including the names and addresses of all
witnesses the applicant intends to call, copies of all documents the
applicant intends to introduce at the hearing, and the relief requested.



3.   The enforcement officer shall specify in writing the reasons for the
enforcement action, a written summary of all oral and written testimony the
enforcement officer intends to introduce at the hearing, including the names
and addresses of all witnesses the enforcement officer intends to call, and
copies of all documents the enforcement officer intends to introduce at the
hearing.



4.   The Clerk shall notify the applicant and the enforcement officer by
ordinary mail, and shall give public notice in accordance with Chapter 21,
Iowa Code, of the date, time, and place for the regular or special meeting of
the Council at which the hearing on the appeal shall occur.  The hearing
shall be scheduled for a date not less than four (4) or more than twenty (20)
days after the filing of the appeal.  The rules of evidence and procedure,
and the standard of proof to be applied, shall be the same as provided by
Chapter 17A, Code of Iowa.  The applicant may be represented by counsel at
the applicant’s expense.  The enforcement officer may be represented by
the City Attorney or by an attorney designated by the Council at City expense.



The decision of the Council shall be rendered in writing and may be appealed
to the Iowa District Court.



CHAPTER 106
STORMWATER UTILITY



 

106.01  District Established
 
106.05  Prohibited Acts


106.02  Definitions
 
106.06  Right of Entry


106.03  Scope and Responsibility of the Stormwater Utility
 
106.07  Penalties


106.04  Powers and Duties of the Stormwater Utility
 
 



 



106.01  DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.



There is established one stormwater district which include the entire City.



106.02  DEFINITIONS.



Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:



1.   "Commercial/Industrial" means any developed land whereon multiple
family dwellings, commercial retail and office, industrial and manufacturing
buildings, storage buildings and storage areas covered with impervious
surfaces, parking lots, public and private school buildings, churches,
hospitals and convalescent centers have been constructed.



2.   "Customers of stormwater utility" include all persons, properties,
and entities served by and/or benefiting from the utility's acquisition,
management, maintenance, extension and improvement of the public stormwater
management systems and facilities.



3.   "Developed land" means land that has been altered from its natural
state by construction or installation of more then 500 square feet of
impervious surface area as defined in this chapter.



4.   "Duplex dwelling" means a building containing only two (2) dwelling
units and designed for and occupied exclusively by not more than two (2)
families with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.  In the
application of stormwater management fees, duplex dwelling properties shall
be treated as two (2) single family dwellings.



5.   "Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU)" shall be used as the basis for
determining stormwater management fees.  Less than or equal to four thousand
(4,000) square feet of impervious surface area shall be one ERU.  Every
additional increment of one (1) square foot to two thousand (2,000) square
feet of impervious surface area shall be one half (0.5) ERU.



6.   "Impervious surface area" means those areas which prevent or impede
the infiltration of stormwater into the soil as it enters in natural
conditions prior to development.  Common impervious surface areas include,
but are not limited to, rooftops, sidewalks, driveways, patios, parking lots,
storage areas, compacted gravel surfaces and other surfaces which prevent or
impede the natural infiltration of stormwater runoff which existed prior to
development.



7.   "Multiple family dwelling" means a residence designed for or occupied
by three (3) or more families with separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities for each.  In the application of stormwater management fees,
multiple family dwelling properties shall be treated as commercial/industrial.



8.   "Pollutant" means anything that causes or contributes to pollution. 
Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and
solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid
wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded
or abandoned objects, so that the same may cause or contribute to pollution;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform bacteria and pathogens; dissolved and particulate
metals; animal wastes; waste and residues that result from constructing a
building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.



9.   Single-family dwelling" means a residence designed for or occupied by
one family only entirely surrounded by yard on the same lot.



10.   "Stormwater management fees" mean the periodic rate, fee or charge
applicable to a parcel of developed land, which charge shall be reflective of
the service provided by the City of Ankeny stormwater utility.  Stormwater
management fees are based on measurable parameters which influence the
stormwater utility's cost of providing services and facilities, with the most
important factor being the amount of impervious surface area on each parcel
of developed property.  The stormwater management fees shall be determined
by ordinance of the City Council.



11.   "Stormwater management systems and facilities" address the issue of
drainage management (flooding) and environmental quality (pollution, erosion
and sedimentation) of receiving rivers, streams, creeks, lakes and ponds
through improvements, maintenance, regulation and funding of plant,
structures and property used in the collection, retention, detention and
treatment of stormwater or surface water drainage.



12.   "Substantial completion" means the construction has been completed
and the City of Ankeny has acknowledged that the construction has been
completed in accordance with the approved plans and specification through the
insurance of a temporary certificate of occupancy or permanent certificate of
occupancy.



13.   "Townhome dwelling" means a dwelling unit which is detached or
attached horizontally, and not vertically, to one or more other dwelling
units, wherein the land or lot beneath each dwelling may be individually
owned in common by a townhome association.  In the application of stormwater
management fees, each townhome dwelling shall be treated as one (1) single
family dwelling.



14.   "Undeveloped land" means land in its unaltered natural state or
which has been modified to such minimal degree as to have a hydrologic
response comparable to land in an unaltered state.  Undeveloped land shall
have less than 500 square feet of pavement, asphalt or compacted gravel
surfaces or structures which create an impervious surface area.



106.03  SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STORMWATER UTILITY.



The City of Ankeny stormwater utility consists of all rivers, streams,
creeks, branches, lakes, ponds, drainage ways, channels, ditches, swales,
storm sewers, culverts, inlets, catch basins, pipes, dams, head walls and
other structures, natural or man-made, within the corporate boundaries of the
City which control and/or convey stormwater through which the City
intentionally diverts surface waters from its public streets and
properties.  The City owns or has legal access for purposes of operation,
maintenance and improvement to those segments of this system which (1) are
located within public streets, rights-of-ways and easements; (2) are subject
to easement or other permanent provision for adequate access for operation,
maintenance and improvement of systems of facilities; or (3) are located on
public lands to which the City has adequate access for operation, maintenance
and improvement of systems or facilities.  Operation, maintenance and
improvement of stormwater systems and facilities which are located on private
property or public property not owned by the City and for which there has
been no public dedication of such systems and facilities shall be and remain
the legal responsibility of the property owner, or its occupant.



106.04  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE STORMWATER UTILITY.



The Director of Public Works has the following powers and duties related to
the City of Ankeny Stormwater Utility:



1.   Operations and Maintenance.  Operation and maintenance of the
stormwater management systems and facilities.



2.   Inspection and Tests.  Conduct necessary inspections and tests to
assure compliance with the provision of this chapter.



3.   Records.  Maintain a complete and accurate record of all stormwater
management systems and facilities.



4.   Policies.  Recommend to the City Council policies to be adopted and
enforced to implement the provisions of this chapter.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



106.05  PROHIBITED ACTS.



No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:



1.   Damage Stormwater Management Systems and Facilities.  Maliciously,
willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, pipe, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the
stormwater management systems or facilities.



2.   Illicit Discharges.  No person shall throw, drain or otherwise
discharge or cause to throw, drain, run or allow to seep or otherwise be
discharged into the City of Ankeny stormwater management systems and
facilities, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants, other than stormwater.



3.   Manholes.  Open or enter any manhole, structure or intake of the
stormwater system, except by authority of the Director of Municipal Utilities.



4.   Connection.  Connection of any private stormwater system to the
City’s stormwater management systems and facilities, except by authority of
the Director of Public Works.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



106.06  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



The Director of Public Works and other authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement
sampling and testing all private stormwater discharges directly or indirectly
entering into any public stormwater management system or facility in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



106.07  PENALTIES.



The following penalty provisions shall apply to violations of the stormwater
utility chapters of this Code of Ordinances.



1.   Notice of Violation.  Any person found to be violating any
provisions of these chapters shall be served by the City with a written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.  The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently remedy all violations.



2.   Continuing Violations.  Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection 1 thereof, shall be subject
to a civil penalty as set forth in Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances. 
Each day which said violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.



3.   Liability Imposed.  Any person violating any of the provisions of
these chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the City by reason of such violation.




(Ch. 106 - Ord. 1617 - Oct. 08 Supp.)




CHAPTER 107
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEES



 

107.01  Service Charges
 
107.05  Exemption From Fees; Special Conditions


107.02  Stormwater Management Fees
 
107.06  Billings


107.03  Calculations
 
107.07  Periodic Review


107.04  Appeals
 
107.08  Lien for Nonpayment



 



107.01  SERVICE CHARGES.



Effective with bills due and payable on or after July 1, 2009, every customer
whose premises is served by the stormwater management systems and facilities
of the City of Ankeny, either directly or indirectly, shall pay to the City
of Ankeny stormwater management fees hereinafter established and specified
for the purpose of contributing towards the costs of construction,
maintenance and operation of the stormwater management systems and facilities.



107.02  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEES.



Except as hereinafter noted, each customer whose property lies within the
corporate limits of the City of Ankeny shall pay to the City of Ankeny,
through its utility billing system, the following stormwater management fees
based on equivalent residential unit (ERU) associated with the customer's
property:



1.   Undeveloped:  A flat fee at the rate of $0.00 per month.



2.   Single-Family and Two-Family Residential:  $5.50 per ERU per month
up to a maximum of 4 ERUs.



(Ord. 1757 - Jul. 13 Supp.)



3.   Commercial, Industrial and Multi-Family:  $5.50 per ERU per month up
to a maximum of 40 ERUs.



(Ord. 1939 - May 18 Supp.)



107.03  CALCULATIONS.



Stormwater management fee calculations shall be the number of equivalent
residential units (ERUs) of each property shall be calculated using the most
recent aerial photography available to the City of Ankeny and/or impervious
surface data from an approved site plan for the property.



107.04  APPEALS.



Any customer who believes the provisions of this chapter have been applied in
error may appeal in the following manner:



1.   An appeal must be filed in writing with the City Manager of the City
of Ankeny.  In the case of fee appeals, the appeal shall include a survey
prepared by a registered Iowa land surveyor or professional engineer
containing information on the total property area, the impervious surface
area and any other features or conditions which influence the hydrologic
response of the property to rainfall events.



2.   Using the information provided by the appellant, the City Manager
shall conduct a technical review of the conditions on the property and
respond to the appeal in writing within thirty (30) days.  All decisions of
the City Manager are final.



3.   In response to an appeal, the City Manager may adjust the stormwater
fees applicable to a property in conformance with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter.



107.05  EXEMPTION FROM FEES; SPECIAL CONDITIONS.



The stormwater management fee shall not apply:



1.   If an individual receives water service from Ankeny and, for whatever
reason that results in the building being vacant or unoccupied, desires and
makes arrangements with the Ankeny Municipal Utilities for shutting off said
service for a period of not less than two (2) weeks.



2.   If a written request is made, in special conditions the City Manager
of the City of Ankeny may grant fee payment and collection variances after
determining that granting the variance would be in the City's best interest,
will improve efficiency, safety and is practical.  Upon the granting of any
variance, the City Manager shall file notice with the City Council giving
reason(s) for the variance.



3.   The fee established in Subsection 107.02(3) for
commercial/industrial/ multifamily recognizes that these particular types of
development are required to provide stormwater detention onsite.  Having
such stormwater detention, therefore, is not a basis for exemption.



107.06  BILLINGS.



All stormwater management fees shall be due and payable under the same terms
and conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as
contained in Section 92.08 of this Code of Ordinances.  Water service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section 92.09 if
the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained
in Section 92.12 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a
delinquent account.  Questions concerning stormwater management fees shall,
to the extent possible, be handled administratively by staff members of the
finance department who have oversight responsibility for such for such
charges.



(Ord. 1798 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



107.07  PERIODIC REVIEW.



The City will review the stormwater management fees at least yearly and
revise the stormwater management fees as necessary to ensure that such
charges as herein established and specified generate adequate revenues to pay
the costs of maintenance and operation (including replacement and debt
service) of stormwater management systems and facilities and that the
stormwater management fees continue to provide for the proportional
distribution of maintenance and operation costs (including replacement costs
and debt service) for stormwater management systems and facilities among the
users and user classes.  The liability of a stormwater service user to pay
for charges as provided in this chapter shall not be contingent, however,
upon any such review or revision.



107.08  LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.



The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for stormwater management fees.  Stormwater
management fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County
Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.




(Ch. 107 - Ord. 1641 - Jul. 09 Supp.)




CHAPTER 110
SOLID WASTE CONTROL



 

110.01  Purpose
 
110.07  Composting


110.02  Definitions
 
110.08  Littering Prohibited


110.03  Sanitary Disposal Required
 
110.09  Open Dumping Prohibited


110.04  Health and Fire Hazard
 
110.10  Toxic and Hazardous Waste


110.05  Open Burning Restricted
 
110.11  Waste Storage Containers


110.06  Separation of Yard Waste Required
 
110.12  Prohibited Practices



 



110.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.



110.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:



1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste
from public and private places.



2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit or
drop.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])



3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used,
or are intended to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.



4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and
all offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all
residences. 



(IAC, 567-100.2)



5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except
garbage.  The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush,
weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings. 



(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])



6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste
materials or debris.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])



7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business
in any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.



8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including
but not limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street
cleanings, market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in
dry or semisolid form. 



(IAC, 567-100.2)



9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any
multiple-family dwelling.



10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises
as a result of residential activities.  The term includes landscape waste
grown on the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes
garbage, tires, trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.



(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])



11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of
combustible and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind.



(IAC, 567-100.2)



12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so
that it does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a
nuisance.



(IAC, 567-100.2)



13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and
appurtenances including all real and personal property connected with such
facilities, which are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed,
equipped, improved, extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final
disposition of solid waste without creating a significant hazard to the
public health or safety, and which are approved by the Director of the State
Department of Natural Resources.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301) 



14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities.  Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by subsection one
of Section 321.1 of the Code of Iowa. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301) 



110.03  SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.



It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. 
Any such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than
thirty (30) days shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate
such nuisances in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by
initiating proper action in district court.



(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657) 



110.04  HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.



It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste
that constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.



110.05  OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.



No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without
passing through a chimney or stack without first obtaining a permit and
conducting such burning in accordance with the International Fire Code.



110.06  SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.



All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
solid waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted in accordance
with Section 110.07 or placed for collection in accordance with Chapter
113.  As used in this section, “yard waste” means any debris such as
grass clippings, leaves, garden waste, brush, and trees.  Yard waste does
not include tree stumps.



110.07  COMPOSTING.



The purpose of this section is to promote the recycling of yard wastes and
certain kitchen wastes through composting and to establish minimum standards
for proper compost maintenance.



1.   Definitions.  For use in this section, the following terms are
defined:



   A.   “Composting” means the controlled biological reduction of
organic waste to humus. 



   B.   “Kitchen waste” means any uncooked plant matter not
contaminated by or containing meat, fish and/or dairy products.



   C.   “Yard waste” means the organic waste produced from the
growing, trimming and removal of grass, branches (not exceeding one inch in
diameter), bushes, shrubs, plants, leaves, and garden debris. 



2.   Maintenance.  All compost piles shall be maintained using approved
composting procedures to comply with the following requirements:



   A.   All compost piles shall be enclosed in a free-standing compost
bin.  Each compost bin shall be no larger in volume than 125 cubic feet and
shall be no taller than 42 inches.



   B.   All compost bins shall be so maintained as to prevent the
attraction or harborage of rodents and pests.



   C.   All compost bins shall be so maintained as to prevent
unpleasant odors.



   D.   No compost bin shall be allowed to deteriorate to such
condition as to be a blighting influence on the surrounding property or
neighborhood or City in general.



3.   Location.  All compost bins shall be located not less than three (3)
feet from a property line or principal building or dwelling and three (3)
feet from any detached accessory building.  A variance from these setback
requirements may be applied for if the property owner can show a hardship
exists which prohibits compliance.  In addition, any variance application
must include a signed written approval of the variance request from the
adjacent property owner.  Variances may be granted by the Building Inspector
on an annual basis upon the proper application being submitted by the
property owner.  Screening and/or fencing of compost bins may be required as
a condition of a variance being granted.  No compost bin shall be located in
any yard except a rear yard.  A compost bin may be located in a side yard
subject to the variance procedure contained in this subsection and must be
screened from view to the street.



4.   Prohibited Ingredients.  No compost bin shall contain any of the
following:



   A.   Lakeweeds;



   B.   Cooked food scraps of any kind or type;



   C.   Fish, meat or other animal products;



   D.   Manures;



   E.   Large items that will impede the composting process.



5.   Permitted Ingredients.  Permitted ingredients include the following:



   A.   Yard waste;



   B.   Coffee grounds and used tea leaves;



   C.   Uncooked plant matter not contaminated by or containing meat,
fish and/or dairy products;



   D.   Commercial compost additives.



6.   Owner Responsibility.  Every owner or operator shall be responsible
for maintaining all property under said owner’s control in accordance with
the requirements of this section.  Each day that a violation of the
provisions of this section continues shall be considered a separate offense.



110.08  LITTERING PROHIBITED.



No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized
collection and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles
provided for such purpose.  When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle,
the driver of the motor vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case
where doubt exists as to which occupant of the motor vehicle actually
discarded the litter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)



110.09  OPEN DUMPING PROHIBITED.



No person shall dump or deposit or permit the dumping or depositing of any
solid waste on the surface of the ground or into a body or stream of water at
any place other than a sanitary disposal project approved by the Director of
the State Department of Natural Resources, unless a special permit to dump or
deposit solid waste on land owned or leased by such person has been obtained
from the Director of the State Department of Natural Resources.  However,
this section does not prohibit the use of dirt, stone, brick, or similar
inorganic material for fill, landscaping, excavation, or grading at places
other than a sanitary disposal project. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.307 and IAC, 567-100.2)



110.10  TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.



No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste.  Such materials shall be
transported and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State
Department of Natural Resources.  As used in this section, “toxic and
hazardous waste” means waste materials, including but not limited to,
poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste,
flammable or explosive materials and similar harmful waste which requires
special handling and which must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety. 



(IAC, 567-100.2)



(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])



110.11  WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.



Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:



1.   Container Specifications.  Waste storage containers shall comply
with the following specifications:



   A.   Residential.  Residential waste containers, whether they be
reusable, portable containers or heavy-duty disposable garbage bags, shall be
of sufficient capacity, and leakproof and waterproof.  Disposable containers
shall be securely fastened, and reusable containers shall be fitted with a
fly-tight lid which shall be kept in place except when depositing or removing
the contents of the container.  Reusable containers shall also be
lightweight and of sturdy construction and have suitable lifting devices.



   B.   Commercial.  Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing
or renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse
accumulates and where its storage in portable containers as required above is
impractical, shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the
City.  Dumpster covers must be closed and no debris shall be placed on the
ground.



2.   Storage of Containers.  Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises.  Commercial solid waste containers
shall be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted
written permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. 
The storage site shall be well drained; fully accessible to collection
equipment, public health personnel, and fire inspection personnel.  All
owners of residential and commercial premises shall be responsible for proper
storage of all garbage and yard waste to prevent materials from being blown
or scattered around neighboring yards and streets.



3.   Location of Containers for Collection.  Containers for the storage
of solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.



4.   Nonconforming Containers.  Solid waste placed in containers which
are not in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be
collected.



110.12  PROHIBITED PRACTICES.



It is unlawful for any person to:



1.   Interfere with Collectors.  Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service. 



2.   Incinerators.  Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators
designed for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid or
gaseous combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which
the solid residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable
to the Environmental Protection Commission, and permitted by Polk County
and/or the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.



3.   Scavenging.  Take or collect any solid waste which has been placed
out for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid
waste collector.



CHAPTER 111
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE



 

111.01  Collection Service
 
111.05  Bulky Rubbish


111.02  Collection Vehicles
 
111.06  Right of Entry


111.03  Loading
 
111.07  Collector’s License


111.04  Frequency of Collection
 



 



111.01  COLLECTION SERVICE.



The collection of solid waste within the City shall be by private contract
with collectors licensed by the City.



111.02  COLLECTION VEHICLES.



Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall
be leakproof, durable and of easily cleanable construction.  They shall be
cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution or insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good repair.



(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])



111.03  LOADING.



Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing
or loss of material.  Where spillage does occur, the material shall be
picked up immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the
vehicle or container and the area properly cleaned.



111.04  FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.



All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week and from commercial, industrial and institutional premises as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.



111.05  BULKY RUBBISH.



Bulky, non-hazardous rubbish which is too large or heavy to be collected in
the normal manner of other solid waste shall be collected by the collector
upon request in accordance with procedures therefor established by the
contractor and approved by the City.



111.06  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this
chapter; however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or
other residential buildings.



111.07  COLLECTOR’S LICENSE.



No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste other than waste produced by that
person within the City without first obtaining from the City an annual
license in accordance with the following:



1.   Application.  Application for a solid waste collector’s license
shall be made to the Clerk and provide the following:



   A.   Name and Address.  The full name and address of the applicant,
and if a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers thereof.



   B.   Equipment.  A complete and accurate listing of the number and
type of collection and transportation equipment to be used.



   C.   Collection Program.  A complete description of the frequency,
routes and method of collection and transportation to be used.



   D.   Disposal.  A statement as to the precise location and method
of disposal or processing facilities to be used.



2.   Insurance.  No collector’s license shall be issued until and
unless the applicant therefor, in addition to all other requirements set
forth, shall file and maintain with the City evidence of satisfactory public
liability insurance covering all operations of the applicant pertaining to
such business and all equipment and vehicles to be operated in the conduct
thereof in the following minimum amounts:



 

Bodily Injury:
 
– $100,000 per person.


 
– $300,000 per occurrence.


Property Damage:
 
– $ 50,000.



 



Each insurance policy required hereunder shall include as a part thereof
provisions requiring the insurance carrier to notify the City of the
expiration, cancellation or other termination of coverage not less than ten
(10) days prior to the effective date of such action. 



3.   License Fee.  An annual license fee in the amount of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) shall accompany the application.  In the event the
requested license is not granted, the fee paid shall be refunded to the
applicant.



4.   License Issued.  If the Council upon investigation finds the
application to be in order and determines that the applicant will collect,
transport, process or dispose of solid waste without hazard to the public
health or damage to the environment and in conformity with law and ordinance,
the requested license shall be issued to be effective for a period of one
year from the date approved.



5.   License Renewal.  A license may be renewed upon payment of the
required fee provided that the applicant agrees to continue to operate in
substantially the same manner as provided in the original application and
provided that the applicant furnishes the Clerk with a current listing of
vehicles, equipment and facilities in use.  The permit may be issued by the
Clerk on an annual basis, or may be issued for a period of less than 12
months with a set expiration date.  If the permit is issued with an
expiration date, the amount of the fee shall be prorated to account for the
shorter permit duration. 



(Ord. 1819 – July 14 Supp.)



6.   License Not Transferable.  No license authorized by this chapter may
be transferred to another person. 



7.   Owner May Transport.  Nothing herein is to be construed so as to
prevent the owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises
owned, occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of
properly in an approved sanitary disposal project. 



8.   Grading or Excavation Excepted.  No license or permit is required
for the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading
or excavation activities; however, all such materials shall be conveyed in
tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none
of the material being transported spills upon any public right-of-way.



CHAPTER 112
MUNICIPAL RECYCLING



 

112.01  Purpose
 
112.07  Applicability of Regulations


112.02  Definitions
 
112.08  Collection and Transportation


112.03  Establishment of Recycling Program
 
112.09  Storage of Recyclable Materials


112.04  Reporting Requirements
 
112.10  Preparation of Recyclable Materials


112.05  Authorization of Collectors
 
112.11  Collection by Unauthorized Persons


112.06  License Requirements
 
112.12  Enforcement



 



112.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to promote recycling by requiring property
owners to provide facilities for the source separation of recyclable
materials at certain locations.



112.02  DEFINITIONS.



The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the meanings given to them in
this section:



1.   “Collection” means the transportation of the municipal waste from
the place it is generated and includes all activities up to the time the
waste is delivered to a recycling facility or solid waste disposal site.



2.   “Collector” means a person authorized by the City to collect,
transport and dispose of municipal waste or recyclable materials.



3.   “Commingled” means source-separated, non-putrescible recyclable
materials that have been mixed at the source of generation (i.e., placed in
the same container).



4.   “Condominium” means an apartment building or housing area in
which the dwelling units are owned individually.



5.   “Designated recyclable material” means newspapers, corrugated
containers, magazines, catalogs, unsolicited mail, Kraft bags, bi-metal and
ferrous cans, aluminum cans, high-density polyethylene (HDPE, coded No. 2)
(excluding motor oil and anti-freeze bottles), and polyethylene terephthalate
(PETE), whether alone or in combination, or any other materials or
combinations thereof that have been approved by the metro waste authority and
designated by subsequent Council resolution to fall within the definition of
“designated recyclable material.”



6.   “Dwelling unit” means a group of rooms located within a structure
and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating for the
exclusive use of the occupants thereof.



7.   “Multifamily dwelling” means any building under one roof which
contains two or more complete dwelling units.



8.   “Municipal waste” means any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom
or office waste, and other material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or
contained gaseous material resulting from the operation of multifamily
dwellings.



9.   “Nearby” means adjoining, adjacent, or contiguous.



10.   “Nonrecyclable material” means any material not defined as
recyclable material.



11.   “Premises” means real property on which any multifamily dwelling
unit or combination of units sharing common driveways are located.



12.   “Recycling facility” means any facility employing a technology
that is a process that separates or recovers reusable materials that can be
sold or reused by a manufacturer as substitute for or a supplement to virgin
raw materials.



13.   “Recycling” means the separation, collection, processing,
recovering and sale or reuse of materials which would otherwise be disposed
of as municipal waste.



14.   “Source separation” means the separation of recyclable materials
from the municipal waste stream at the point of waste generation.



112.03  ESTABLISHMENT OF RECYCLING PROGRAM.



1.   There is established a recycling program for the source separation,
separate collection and recycling of designated recyclable materials
generated within the City from all multifamily dwellings and dwelling units
not presently served by existing residential recycling collection programs.



2.   Collection of designated recyclable materials, pursuant to this
section, shall be made at least twice per month, or at such additional times
as may be necessary to serve the needs of the customer to insure that the
storage of said designated recyclable materials shall not result in the
creation of a public nuisance.



3.   All multifamily dwellings which are not presently part of existing
residential recycling collection programs shall be required to provide the
facilities for the source separation of all designated recyclable materials
generated on the premises and shall arrange for the collection of said
materials to be transported to a recycling facility.



4.   Program development, implementation, and operation shall be the
responsibility of the same entity which contracts for the private collection
and disposal of solid waste on the premises.



5.   The specific designated recyclable materials are those materials set
out in Section 112.02(5) of this chapter.



6.   The City reserves the right to amend the list of designated
recyclable materials, as defined in Section 112.02(5), at any time by
subsequent resolution of the Council.



112.04  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.



It is the responsibility of all commercial waste haulers collecting solid
waste, or designated recyclable materials generated in the City, to submit a
recycling report to the City on an annual basis.  Said report shall identify
the total weight of recyclable materials collected.  All such reports of the
previous year shall be submitted on forms provided by the City to the
Director of Public Works, or other designee of the City Manager, by January
31.  The City reserves the right to require any additional information
deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works or other designee of the
City Manager.



112.05  AUTHORIZATION OF COLLECTORS.



All commercial solid waste haulers or haulers of designated recyclable
materials who, as a commercial enterprise, provide the service of collection
of said designated recyclable materials or waste to owners/operators of
multifamily dwelling units, shall be duly authorized by the City through the
issuance of a license.



112.06  LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.



All applicants for licensing shall conform to the requirements of Section
111.07 of this Code of Ordinances and shall otherwise comply with all of the
provisions of Chapter 111, and shall further be subject to the following
requirements:



1.   Licenses for the collection of solid waste and/or designated
recyclable materials may be issued only to those persons who can provide
satisfactory evidence they are capable of providing the necessary services
and can comply with the provisions and intent of this chapter.  The City
reserves the right to disapprove any application for license for just cause.



2.   Every applicant, before being granted a designated recyclable
materials collection license or a solid waste license, shall submit proof
that all said materials will be transported in vehicles that are tarped,
covered, or closed and that the materials being transported are not capable
of blowing or falling out or away from the transporting vehicle.



112.07  APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.



Any person engaged in the collection, processing and marketing of designated
recyclable materials within the City or who collects solid waste within the
City and all householders, firms, corporations, co-partnerships and any and
all persons who may or do produce solid waste and/or designated recyclable
materials shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.



112.08  COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.



1.   Transportation.  Any person transporting designated recyclable
materials within the City shall prevent or remedy any spillage from vehicles
or containers used in the transport of such designated recyclable
materials.  Such vehicles or containers shall not be overfilled and shall be
cleaned at sufficiently frequent intervals to prevent obnoxious odors or
unhealthful conditions.  Such vehicles shall also be so constructed, loaded,
and driven as to prevent any portion of the load from falling out upon the
streets or highways.



2.   Removal by Collectors.  Collectors shall return the recycling
receptacles to the premises from which they have been removed in a manner so
as not to create a public nuisance.  Collectors shall also collect and
remove all recyclable materials for which they are responsible to collect
from the premises.



112.09  STORAGE OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.



1.   General.  It is the duty of every owner or entity which contracts
for the private collection and disposal of solid waste from any premises to
provide and keep, at all times, a sufficient number of containers to hold all
designated recyclable materials which may accumulate during the intervals
between collections of such materials by the authorized collector. 
Containers may be located on site or on nearby premises with the permission
of the affected property owner or otherwise in accordance with the provision
of this section.  Owners of multifamily dwelling units shall insure that
each dwelling unit has access to the containers and that said containers are
sufficient to hold all designated recyclable materials accumulated by the
occupants of the dwelling unit during the intervals between collections.



2.   Storage.  All designated recyclable materials accumulated by owners
and/or occupants of multifamily dwelling units shall be placed in containers
which are durable, watertight, and made of metal or plastic and marked with
the recycling symbol or other acceptable markings.  The containers shall
remain on the premises at all times and shall be kept in a clean condition. 
The type of bulk container to be furnished by the collector shall be
acceptable to the Director of Public Works or other designee of the City
Manager.  Containers shall have lids, if necessary, to avert a public
nuisance or protect the marketing quality of designated recyclable
materials.  Such lids must remain closed, except when designated recyclable
materials are being placed in or removed from the container.  The container
shall be clearly marked with both the recycling symbol and with the types of
material to be deposited in the container.  The container shall be kept
clean and in good repair.  The number of such containers shall be sufficient
to handle the volume of recyclables which accumulate between collection
intervals.



3.   Location of Containers.  Bulk storage containers for collection at
multifamily dwellings using private collection shall be located on such
premises at a place agreed upon by such owner or occupant of the property and
the authorized collector.  Such location shall not interfere with private or
public sidewalks, walkways, driveways, roads, streets, highways, or entrances
and exits of private or public buildings, and shall be in compliance with all
applicable laws.  Bulk storage containers which are on wheels to facilitate
their movement shall remain blocked at all times while unattended to prevent
unintentional movement.



112.10  PREPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.



Designated recyclable materials shall be separated and prepared in a manner
consistent with recycling market requirements and placed at a designated area
separate from municipal waste for collection at such time and dates as may be
agreed upon between the collector and the establishment.



112.11  COLLECTION BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.



It is a violation of this chapter for any person unauthorized by the City to
collect or pick up, or cause to be collected or picked up, any recyclable
materials or solid waste.  Each such collection in violation hereof shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be subject to civil
penalties.  Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, any person having
ownership of the same may sell or donate recyclable materials for the purpose
of recycling to any person, partnership, or corporation, whether operating
for profit or not for profit.



112.12  ENFORCEMENT.



The City’s Department of Planning and Development Services is authorized
and directed to administer and enforce this chapter.  At apartment
complexes, the City’s Department of Planning and Development Services
personnel will tie recycling compliance into their biannual multifamily
inspections and include it on the inspector’s checklist.  Enforcement
relative to multifamily recycling may also be handled by more frequent
inspections or on a complaint basis.  Any person who fails, neglects, or
refuses to comply with any terms or provisions of this chapter or any
regulation or requirement pursuant hereto and authorized hereby, shall be
subject to civil penalty.



CHAPTER 113
SOLID WASTE ENTERPRISE FUND – CURBSIDE RECYCLING AND LEAF, TREE, BRANCH AND
MISCELLANEOUS ITEM COLLECTION SYSTEM



 

113.01  Established
 
113.04  Rate Review


113.02  Definitions
 
113.05  Termination


113.03  Monthly Charge
 



 



113.01  ESTABLISHED.



There is established a curbside recycling system; leaf, tree, branch and
miscellaneous item collection system; and post closure landfill system within
the Solid Waste Enterprise Fund which shall be under the management and
control of the Council.



(Ord. 1697 - Jul. 11 Supp.)



113.02  DEFINITIONS.



Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:



1.   "Billing agency" means the City of Ankeny, or any other agency
designated by the City, to maintain customer accounts, prepare and mail bills
and account for payments.



2.   "Consumer" means any person or any entity whose premises are served
by the utility.



3.   "Curbside recycling" means a service available to residential units
within the City for the placement of approved recyclable materials in bins at
the curb for pickup by a licensed collector under the Curb It! program of the
Metropolitan Waste Authority, or any other arrangement for collection
established by the City.



4.   "Customer" means the person or entity who is responsible for payment
of the said charges for services for such premises.



5.   "Leaf collection" means the collection of leaves at approved sites
and times of the year as may be established by the City for the purpose of
composting or other means of disposal.



6.   "Miscellaneous item collection" means the collection of miscellaneous
items at approved sites and times of the year as may be established by the
City for the purpose of disposal at the Metropolitan Landfill.



7.   "Monthly charge" means the monthly charge to the customer.  The
monthly payment shall be payable to the utility.



8.   "Residential unit" means a group of rooms located within a structure
and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating for the
exclusive use of the occupants thereof.



9.   "Tree and branch collection" means those trees and branches approved
by the City to be collected and chipped by the City, and returned to citizens
of the City for use as mulch in gardens or landscaping areas.



10.   "Post closure landfill services" means all maintenance activities
undertaken at the closed landfill to maintain the integrity of containment
features, and to monitor compliance with applicable performance standards.



(Ord. 1697 - Jul. 11 Supp.)



113.03  MONTHLY CHARGE.



1.   Every residential unit within the City receiving curbside recycling
services shall pay to the enterprise fund a monthly charge to cover the cost
of providing said services.



2.   Every residential unit within the City shall have available the leaf,
tree, branch and miscellaneous item collection site or sites provided by the
City, and shall pay to the enterprise fund a monthly charge to cover the cost
of providing said services.



3.   Every residential unit within the City shall pay to the enterprise
fund a monthly charge for post closure landfill services to cover the cost of
providing said services.



4.   The monthly charges for curbside recycling services; leaf, tree,
branch, and miscellaneous item collection services; and post closure landfill
services shall be the amounts set by resolution of the Council.



5.   The monthly charges provided for in this section shall be billed as a
part of combined service account as contained in Section 92.05 of this Code
of Ordinances.



(Ord. 1697 - Jul. 11 Supp.)



113.04  RATE REVIEW.



The Council shall annually review the rates charged in Section 113.03 to
insure that such rates shall produce gross revenue at least sufficient to pay
the expenses of said services.



113.05  TERMINATION.



Service may be discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in
Section 92.06 of the Code of Ordinances if the combined service account
becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained in Section 92.09 relating to
lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent account.



CHAPTER 115
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE – MID-AMERICAN



 

115.01  Grant of Franchise
 
115.07  Indemnification


115.02  State Code Restrictions and Limitations
 
115.08  Extension of System


115.03  Standards of Operation
 
115.09  Assignment


115.04  Location
 
115.10  Forfeiture


115.05  Relocation of Property
 
115.11  Franchise Fee


115.06  Restoration of Property
 



 



115.01  GRANT OF FRANCHISE.



There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns the right
and franchise to acquire, erect, maintain and operate in the City a gas
distribution system, to furnish natural gas along, under and upon the
streets, avenues, alleys and public places to serve customers within and
without the City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its
inhabitants.  For the term of this franchise the Company is granted the
right of eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to Council approval
upon application by the Company.  The franchise shall be effective for a
20-year period beginning on the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter † 5 (which shall be the date upon which the franchise
ordinance is accepted by the Company); provided however, there may be a
re-evaluation prior to the end of year 10, with the opportunity for either
party to request amendments in writing.  If neither party requests such
reevaluation by means of a written notice to the other party during the last
120 days of year 10, the franchise will continue as approved for the
remaining 10 years.  If a request to amend the franchise is submitted and
the parties are unable to agree to amend the franchise, then the franchise
may be terminated at the end of year 10 by either the City or the Company.



115.02  STATE CODE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.



The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.



115.03  STANDARDS OF OPERATION.



The Company shall furnish reasonable, adequate and efficient natural gas
service to the residents of the City and shall maintain its systems in
reasonable repair and working order and provide adequate facilities for such
maintenance.  The Company’s equipment, including all distribution
facilities, shall be installed in accordance with good engineering practices
and shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successor, so as not to
endanger or interfere with the lives of persons, or to unnecessarily hinder
or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic to public ways, places and
structures.  The erection, installation, construction, replacement, removal,
repair, maintenance, and operation of the natural gas system shall be in
accordance with all applicable laws, regulations and codes of the State and
all applicable ordinances, regulations and codes of the City.



115.04  LOCATION.



All distribution facilities, gas mains, services, lines and equipment
installed by the Company within the City shall be located as to cause minimum
interference with the properties of streets, alleys and other public ways and
places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or
other public ways and places.  The Company shall have the right to excavate
in any public street for the purpose of laying, re-laying, repairing or
extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and other facilities provided that the
same shall be so placed as not to interfere with the construction of any
water pipes, drain or sewer or the flow of water therefrom, which have been
or may hereafter be located by authority of the City.



115.05  RELOCATION OF PROPERTY.



The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes
of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of
the street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement.  If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street,
alley or public improvements, which alternative route would not cause the
relocation of the Company installations, the City shall select said
alternative route.  If relocation of the Company facilities could be avoided
by relocating other franchisee’s or facility user’s equipment and
facilities, and said other franchisee’s or user’s cost of relocation is
less than the Company’s cost of relocation, the City shall select the route
that requires the other franchisees or users to relocate.  If project funds
from a source other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of
utility facilities, the City shall use its best efforts to secure said funds
and provide them to the Company to compensate the Company for the costs of
relocation.



115.06  RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.



In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for
the installation of gas pipes, conduits, or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring the original condition as nearly as practicable.



115.07  INDEMNIFICATION.



Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, caused or occasioned, or allegedly caused or
occasioned, in whole or in part, by Company’s negligence in construction,
reconstruction, excavation, operation or maintenance of the gas utilities
authorized by the franchise, provided, however, that the Company shall not be
obligated to defend, indemnify and save harmless the City for any costs or
damages arising from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or
agents.  The Company shall purchase and maintain insurance to protect the
City throughout the duration of the franchise.  Coverage may be provided
under a program of self insurance.  The Company’s indemnification
obligations under the franchise shall survive the expiration, cancellation,
or termination of the franchise.



115.08  EXTENSION OF SYSTEM.



The Company shall extend its mains and pipes, and operate and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors.



115.09  ASSIGNMENT.



The franchise shall apply and bind the City and the Company, their successors
and assigns, provided that any assignment by the Company shall be subject to
the approval of the Council by resolution, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld, except that no consent shall be required for any assignment or
transfer by merger, consolidation or reorganization.  The City shall have 60
days after the effective date of the assignment to adopt the resolution.  If
the City fails to adopt a resolution affirming or rejecting the assignment
during the 60-day period, the assignment shall be deemed approved.  The
Company shall provide notice to the City in the event of an assignment of the
franchise.



115.10  FORFEITURE.



The violation of any material portion of the franchise by the Company, or its
failure to perform any of the provisions of the franchise, may be cause for
forfeiture of the franchise and the termination of all rights under this
chapter.  Such forfeiture may be accomplished after written notice to the
Company by the City, and a continuation of the violation, failure, or default
specified in the notice for at least 60 days from the date the notice was
served upon the Company, unless a different cure period is agreed upon by the
parties.  If the City determines there to be a default under the franchise,
it shall provide a written notice to the Company describing the default,
stating whether a forfeiture and termination of the franchise will be sought,
and where the default is curable, proposing a reasonable time to cure the
default, which shall be not less than sixty (60) days.  Company may respond
to such notice, proposing a different time to accomplish the cure of the
default.  If Company has not cured the default within the agreed-upon cure
period, the City may proceed to terminate the franchise agreement and the
same shall be deemed forfeited by the Company as provided above.



115.11  FRANCHISE FEE.



In consideration of the right and franchise granted to MidAmerican Energy
Company (the "Company") in Section 115.01 herein, a franchise fee is hereby
imposed effective May 1, 2011, equal to two percent (2%) of the gross
receipts minus uncollectable amounts derived by the Company in the City of
Ankeny for the delivery and sale of natural gas.



1.   The amount of franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility
bill to each customer.  The Company shall remit collected franchise fees to
the City on a quarterly basis, within thirty (30) days after the last day of
the last revenue month of each quarter of the calendar year (i.e. remitted by
April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31).  The City shall not modify
the level of the franchise fee more frequently than once in any twelve (12)
month period.



2.   The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any
amounts collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such franchise fees
for purposes allowed by Iowa law and as set forth in the Revenue Purpose
Statement previously adopted by the City.



3.   The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers' bills in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapters 362.2(f) and 423B.5, except for the City's
bills which shall be exempt from the franchise fee.



4.   Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval
authorizing annexation or changes in the corporate boundaries of the City,
the City Clerk shall provide written notification to the Company of such
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, and the Company
shall apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, commencing no
more than ninety (90) days after receipt of the written notice and City's
verification of the area added to the City.



5.   To fulfill the purpose and intent of this section, the City and the
Company may enter into an agreement addressing the implementation of the
collection of the franchise fee, which agreement shall be approved by
resolution of the City.



6.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this section
is modified or repealed if:



   A.   Any other person is authorized to sell electricity or natural
gas at retail to City consumers and the City imposes a franchise fee or its
lawful equivalent at zero or a lesser rate than provided in this section, in
which case the obligation of Company to collect and remit franchise fee shall
be modified to zero or the lesser rate;



   B.   The City adds additional territory by annexation or
consolidation and is unable or unwilling to impose the franchise fee upon all
persons selling electricity or natural gas at retail to consumers within the
additional territory, in which case the franchise fee imposed on the revenue
from sales by Company in the additional territory shall be zero or equal to
that of the lowest fee being paid by any other retail seller of electricity
or natural gas within the City; or




   C.   Legislation is enacted by the Iowa General Assembly or the
Supreme Court of Iowa issues a final ruling regarding franchise fees or the
Iowa Utilities Board issues a final nonappealable order (collectively, "final
franchise fee action") that modifies, but does not repeal, the ability of the
City to impose a franchise fee or the ability of Company to collect from City
customers and remit franchise fees to City.  Within a reasonable time of
final franchise fee action, the City and Company shall meet to determine
whether this section can be revised, and, if so, how to revise the franchise
fee on a continuing basis to meet revised legal requirements.  After final
franchise fee action and until passage by the City of revisions to the
franchise fee section, Company may temporarily discontinue collection and
remittance of the franchise fee if in its sole opinion it believes it is
required to do so in order to comply with revised legal requirements.





(Ord. 1686 - Apr. 11 Supp.)




 


Notes

5 
† EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 1508, adopting a natural gas franchise
for the City, was passed and adopted on May 16, 2005. 

 



CHAPTER 116
NATURAL GAS AND ELECTRIC FRANCHISE – CONSUMERS ENERGY



 

116.01  Franchise Granted
 
116.03  Termination of Franchise


116.02  Terms of Franchise
 
116.04  Assignment of Franchise


 
116.05  Franchise Fee



 



116.01  FRANCHISE GRANTED.



Consumers Energy Cooperative, an Iowa cooperative association, is hereby
granted and vested with the right, franchise and privilege for a period of
twenty-five (25) years from the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter to acquire, construct, operate and maintain in the City the
necessary facilities for the production, distribution, transmission and sale
of gas and electricity for public and private use and to construct and
maintain along, upon, across and under the streets, highways, avenues,
alleys, bridges and public places the necessary fixtures and equipment for
such purposes.



116.02  TERMS OF FRANCHISE.



The Grantee shall be subject to the following terms and conditions during the
term of the franchise granted hereunder:



1.   Service Requirements.  The Grantee shall furnish reasonable,
adequate and efficient gas and electric service to the residents of the City
and shall maintain its system in reasonable repair and working order and
provide adequate facilities for such maintenance.  Nothing in this section
shall require the Grantee to provide gas and electric service unless the
services requested are reasonably within its range of performance and there
is a reasonable expectation that the consumption of gas and electricity will
warrant the necessary expenditure.



2.   Installation and Maintenance of Service Facilities.  The Grantee's
plant and equipment, including all transmission lines and other distribution
facilities, shall be installed in accordance with good engineering practices
and shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated so as not to endanger or interfere with the
lives of persons, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic to public ways, places and structures.  The erection,
installation, construction, replacement, removal, repair, maintenance and
operation of the gas and electric system shall be in accordance with all
applicable laws, regulations and codes of the State and application
ordinances, regulations and codes of the City.



3.   Transmission and Distribution Facilities - General Location
Requirements.  All transmission and distribution structures, lines and
equipment erected by the Grantee within the City shall be located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public
ways and places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights or
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets,
alleys or other public ways and places.



4.   Conditions for Use and Occupancy of City Rights-of-Way and Utility
Easements.  The Grantee shall be allowed to use and occupy the City
rights-of-way for the emplacement of its equipment; provided, however,
Grantee shall be required to use subdivision utility easements to the extent
such easements provide for the construction and operation of gas and electric
equipment therein.  Further provided, in such use and occupancy of City
rights-of-way and subdivisions utility easements, Grantee shall be subject to
all generally applicable City ordinances and obligations therein including,
but not limited to, those provisions of this Code of Ordinances regulating
the use and occupancy of such rights-of-way, pertaining to excavations and
pertaining to streets and sidewalks, and further provided that Grantee shall
not construct any plant or system equipment until Grantee has secured the
necessary permits from the City, or other applicable governmental authorities.



5.   Grantee’s Duty to Restore Ground Surface.  In case of any
disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway, or other surfacing, the Grantee
shall at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the City
Engineer, replace and restore all sod, paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface
of any street or alley disturbed in as good a condition as before said work
was commenced.



6.   Alteration of Grade.  If at any time the City elects to alter or
change the grade of any street, alley or public way, and such alteration
requires the relocation of Grantee’s facilities located along, upon, across
and under the streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges and public places
of the City, the Grantee, upon reasonable notice by the City, shall remove,
relay and relocate its poles, wires, cable, underground conduits, manholes,
or other distribution fixtures at its own expense.



7.   Street Obstructions.  Any opening or obstruction in the streets or
other public ways made by the Grantee in the course of its operation,
pursuant to the authority granted hereunder, shall be guarded and protected
at all times by the placement of adequate barriers, fences or boarding, the
bounds of which during periods of dusk and darkness shall be clearly
designated by warning lights.



8.   Mapping Data.  Grantee shall provide to the City Engineer
information indicating the horizontal and approximate vertical location,
relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it
owns or over which it has control and which is located in any right-of-way. 
Mapping data shall be provided with the specificity and in the format
requested by the City Engineer for inclusion in the mapping system used by
the City Engineer.  Grantee shall submit complete and accurate mapping data
for all of its equipment at the time any permit is sought.  Within six (6)
months of the acquisition, installation or construction of additional
equipment or any relocation, abandonment or disuse of existing equipment, the
Grantee shall supplement the mapping information required herein.



9.   Insurance Requirements.  The Grantee shall purchase and maintain
insurance to protect the Grantee and the City throughout the duration of the
franchise.  Said insurance shall be provided by insurance companies approved
by the insurance commissioner of the State of Iowa and having no less than an
A.M. Best rating of “A-.”  All policies shall be written on a
per-occurrence basis, not a claims-made basis, and in form and amounts and
with companies satisfactory to the City.  Certificates of Insurance
confirming required insurance coverage shall be submitted to the City prior
to contract execution or commencement of work and/or services.



   A.   Worker’s Compensation Insurance.  The Grantee shall procure
and maintain during the life of the franchise, Worker’s Compensation
Insurance, including Employer’s Liability Coverage, in accordance with all
applicable statutes of the State of Iowa.  The coverage limits shall include
$500,000 each accident for Bodily Injury by Accident, $500,000 each accident
for Bodily Injury by Disease, and $500,000 policy limit for Bodily Injury by
Disease.



   B.   Commercial General Liability Insurance.  The Grantee shall
procure and maintain during the life of this Franchise, Commercial General
Liability insurance on a per occurrence basis with limits of liability not
less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate combined single
limit; Personal Injury, Bodily Injury, and Property Damage.  Coverage shall
include the following extensions: (a) Contractual Liability, (b) Premises and
Operations, (c) Products and Completed Operations, (d) Independent
Contractors Coverage, (e) Personal and Advertising Injury, and (f) Explosion,
Collapse and Underground (XCU), where applicable.  Coverage shall be no less
comprehensive and no more restrictive than the coverage provided by a
standard form Commercial General Liability Policy (ISO CG 00 0110 93) with
standard exclusions.  Any additional exclusions shall be clearly identified
on the Certificate of Insurance and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City.  The policy shall be endorsed to provide an Aggregate
Per Location/Project Endorsement.



   C.   Automobile Liability Insurance.  The Grantee shall procure and
maintain during the life of this Franchise, Automobile Liability Insurance
with limits of liability of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence combined
single limit including Bodily Injury and Property Damage.  Coverage shall
include all owned vehicles, all non-owned vehicles, and all hired vehicles.



   D.   Umbrella/Excess Insurance.  The coverage specified in B and C
above may be satisfied with a combination of primary and Umbrella/Excess
Insurance.  The Umbrella/Excess Insurance shall also be written on a
per-occurrence basis and shall include the same endorsement as required of
the primary policies.



   E.   Insurance for Other Losses.  The Grantee shall assume, during
the life of the franchise, full responsibility for all loss or damage from
any cause whatsoever to any property brought onto City property that is owned
or rented by the Grantee, or by any of the Grantee’s employees, agents,
subcontractors, suppliers or their employees, to the extent that such
property is utilized in carrying out the provisions of the Franchise.  The
Grantee shall cause its insurance carrier providing physical damage insurance
to the Grantee, to provide a waiver of the right of subrogation against the
City.



   F.   Changes in Coverage, Limits, Endorsements, and Terms.  The
City reserves the right to change the required coverage and the limits
associated with coverage described in A, B, C and D above.  The City Manager
shall annually review and modify, as the City deems necessary, any coverage,
limits, endorsements, and terms.  Such changes shall be based on
then-current insurance industry practices and procedures.



   G.   Subcontractors.  The Grantee shall require that any of its
agents and subcontractors who perform work and/or services pursuant to the
provisions of the Franchise meet the same insurance requirements as are
required of the Grantee.



   H.   Proof of Insurance.  The Grantee shall provide to and maintain
on a current basis with the City Certificates of Insurance evidencing all
required insurance coverage as provided in A through D above utilizing the
latest version of the ACORD form.  Any deductible or self-insured retention
must be disclosed on the face of the Certificate of Insurance and must be
accepted by the City.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Grantee
agrees to defend, pay on behalf of, indemnify, and hold harmless the City,
its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, and others
working on behalf of the City against any and all claims, demands, suits, or
loss, including any and all outlay and expense connected therewith, and for
any damages which may be asserted, claimed, or recovered against or from the
City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, or others
working on behalf of the City, by reason of personal injury, including bodily
injury or death, and property damages, including loss of use thereof which
arises out of or is in any way connected or associated with the work and/or
services provided by the Grantee pursuant to the provisions of the
Franchise.  It is the intention of the parties that the City, its elected
and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, or others working on behalf
of the City shall not be liable or in any way responsible for injury, damage,
liability, loss, or expense resulting to the Grantee, its officers,
employees, subcontractors, and others affiliated with the Grantee due to
accidents, mishaps, misconduct, negligence, or injuries either in person or
property caused by the work and/or services performed by the Grantee under
the Franchise.  The Grantee expressly agrees to pay the City for all damages
caused to the City’s premises resulting from the activities of the Grantee,
its officers, employees, subcontractors, and others affiliated with the
Grantee.  The indemnification obligations of Grantee are not limited in any
way by the amount or type of damages or compensation payable by or for
Grantee under Worker’s Compensation, disability, or other employee benefit
acts, acceptance of insurance certificates required under this chapter, or
the terms, applicability, or limitations of any insurance held by Grantee. 
The City does not, and shall not, waive any rights against Grantee which it
may have by reasons of the indemnification provided for in this Agreement,
because of the acceptance by the City, or the deposit with the City by
Grantee, of any of the insurance policies described in this Agreement.  The
requirements of indemnification shall not be a waiver of any right that the
City would have to assert defenses on its own behalf under state or federal
law.  The Grantee’s indemnification obligations under this Agreement shall
survive the expiration, cancellation, or termination of this Agreement.  To
the extent permitted by law, the Grantee hereby releases the City, its
elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, and others working on
behalf of the City, from any and all liability or responsibility to the
Grantee or anyone claiming through or under the Grantee by way of subrogation
or otherwise, for any loss or damage to property caused by fire or other
casualty, even if such fire or other casualty shall have been caused by the
fault or negligence of the City, its elected and appointed officials,
employees, volunteers, or others working on behalf of the City.  This
provision shall be applicable and in full force and effect only with respect
to loss or damages occurring during the time of the Grantee’s occupancy or
use, and Grantee’s policies of insurance shall contain a clause or
endorsement to the effect that such release shall not adversely affect or
impair such policies or prejudice the right of the Grantee to recover
thereunder.  If, during the term of this franchise ordinance, there shall be
enacted by the Iowa General Assembly a valid taxing statute authorizing the
City to collect a tax on the gas and electric revenue received by Grantee
from its customers in the City, then if such tax is levied by the City, said
Grantee will include, subject to the approval of the Iowa State Commerce
Commission, such tax as a separate item on bills to its customer within the
City, and remit the sums collected to the City under the terms and provisions
of such enacted statute.



116.03  TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.



1.   Grounds for Revocation.  In addition to any other lawful remedies
the City may have, it reserves the right to revoke the Franchise and rescind
all rights and privileges associated therewith in the event of a material
breach of the Franchise.  A material breach or cause for revocation, by way
of example, would include:



   A.   If Grantee should default in the performance of any of its
material obligations under the Agreement and fails to cure the default within
sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice of the default from the City
or such longer time as specified by the City.



   B.   If the Grantee should fail to provide or maintain in full force
and effect the insurance and indemnification coverage as required in the
Agreement.



   C.   If a petition is filed by or against Grantee under the
Bankruptcy Act, as amended, or any other insolvency or creditors’ rights
law, State or Federal, and the Grantee shall fail to have it dismissed.



   D.   If a receiver, trustee or liquidator of the Grantee is applied
for or appointed for all or part of the Grantee’s assets.



   E.   If the Grantee makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors.



   F.   If the Grantee violates any order or ruling of the City, or any
State or Federal regulatory body having jurisdiction over the Grantee, unless
the Grantee is lawfully contesting the legality or applicability of such
order or ruling and has received a stay from the appropriate forum.



   G.   If the Grantee practices any fraud or deceit upon the
subscribers, the City, or the general public.



   H.   If Grantee misrepresented a material fact in the application
for or negotiation of the Franchise or in any other appearance before or
document submitted to the City Council or to subscribers.



   I.   If Grantee violates any material rule, order, regulation or
determination of the City Council made pursuant to its police powers or any
material provision of this Agreement.



2.   Procedure Prior to Revocation.  The City shall give at least thirty
(30) days’ written notice to the Grantee citing the reasons alleged to
constitute cause for revocation, if the reason is of a nature that can be
cured, set a reasonable time in which the Grantee must remedy the cause. 
If, during the 30-day period or such longer period as the City may set, the
cause shall be cured to the satisfaction of the City, the City may declare
the notice to be null and void.  If the Grantee fails to remedy the cause
within the time specified or if the breach is of a nature that cannot be
remedied, the Council may, after public hearing and making a written finding
of a material violation, revoke the Franchise.  In any event, before the
Franchise may be terminated, the Grantee shall be provided with an
opportunity to be heard before the City Council.



3.   Effect of Pending Litigation.  Unless a stay is issued by a court of
appropriate jurisdiction, pending litigation or any appeal to any regulatory
body or court having jurisdiction over the Grantee shall not excuse the
Grantee from the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other
Applicable Laws.  Failure of the Grantee to perform material obligations
because of pending litigation or petition may result in forfeiture or
revocation pursuant to the provisions of this section.



4.   Restoration of Public and Private Property.  In removing its plants,
structures and equipment, the Grantee shall refill at its own expense, any
excavation made by it and shall leave all public ways and places and private
property in as good condition as existed prior to Grantee’s removal of its
equipment and appliances.  The City shall inspect and approve the condition
of the public ways and public places.  Liability insurance and the indemnity
provided in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect during the
period of removal.



5.   Restoration by City; Reimbursement of Costs.  If the Grantee fails
to complete any work required by the City or any work required by other law
or ordinance within the time established and to the satisfaction of the City,
the City may cause such work to be done and the Grantee shall reimburse the
City the costs thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt of any itemized
list of such costs.



6.   Lesser Sanctions.  Nothing shall prohibit the City from imposing
lesser sanctions or censures than revocation.



116.04  ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.



Grantee shall not voluntarily or involuntarily, by operation of law or
otherwise, sell, assign, transfer, lease, sublet or otherwise dispose of, in
whole or in part, the Franchise and/or gas and electric system or any of the
rights or privileges granted by the Franchise, to any entity not controlled
by Grantee without the prior written consent of the City and then only upon
such terms and conditions as may be lawfully prescribed by the City, which
consent shall not be unreasonably denied or delayed provided that any
transferee shall agree to accept all of Grantee's obligations under this
Agreement.  Any attempt to sell, assign, transfer, lease, sublet or
otherwise dispose of all or any part of the Franchise and/or gas and electric
system or Grantee's rights therein without the prior written consent of the
City shall be null and void and shall be grounds for termination of this
Agreement.



116.05  FRANCHISE FEE.



1.   Natural Gas.  In consideration of the right and franchise granted to
Consumers Energy (the "Company") in Section 116.01 herein, a franchise fee is
hereby imposed effective May 1, 2011, equal to two percent (2%) of the gross
receipts minus uncollectable amounts derived by the Company in the City of
Ankeny for the delivery and sale of natural gas.



   A.   The amount of franchise fee shall be shown separately on the
utility bill to each customer.  The Company shall remit collected franchise
fees to the City on a quarterly basis, within thirty (30) days after the last
day of the last revenue month of each quarter of the calendar year (i.e.
remitted by April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31).  The City shall
not modify the level of the franchise fee more frequently than once in any
twelve (12) month period.



   B.   The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any
amounts collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such franchise fees
for purposes allowed by Iowa law and as set forth in the Revenue Purpose
Statement previously adopted by the City.



   C.   The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers' bills in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapters 362.2(f) and 423B.5, except for the City's
bills which shall be exempt from the franchise fee.



   D.   Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval
authorizing annexation or changes in the corporate boundaries of the City,
the City Clerk shall provide written notification to the Company of such
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, and the Company
shall apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, commencing no
more than ninety (90) days after receipt of the written notice and City's
verification of the area added to the City.



   E.   To fulfill the purpose and intent of this section, the City and
the Company may enter into an agreement addressing the implementation of the
collection of the franchise fee, which agreement shall be approved by
resolution of the City.



2.   Electricity.  In consideration of the right and franchise granted to
Consumers Energy (the "Company") in Section 116.01 herein, a franchise fee is
hereby imposed effective May 1, 2011, equal to two percent (2%) of the gross
receipts minus uncollectable amounts derived by the Company in the City of
Ankeny for the delivery and sale of electric energy.



   A.   The amount of franchise fee shall be shown separately on the
utility bill to each customer.  The Company shall remit collected franchise
fees to the City on a quarterly basis, within thirty (30) days after the last
day of the last revenue month of each quarter of the calendar year (i.e.
remitted by April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31).  The City shall
not modify the level of the franchise fee more frequently than once in any
twelve (12) month period.



   B.   The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any
amounts collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such franchise fees
for purposes allowed by Iowa law and as set forth in the Revenue Purpose
Statement previously adopted by the City.



   C.   The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers' bills in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapters 362.2(f) and 423B.5, except for the City's
bills which shall be exempt from the franchise fee.



   D.   Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval
authorizing annexation or changes in the corporate boundaries of the City,
the City Clerk shall provide written notification to the Company of such
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, and the Company
shall apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, commencing no
more than ninety (90) days after receipt of the written notice and City's
verification of the area added to the City.




   E.   To fulfill the purpose and intent of this section, the City and
the Company may enter into an agreement addressing the implementation of the
collection of the franchise fee, which agreement shall be approved by
resolution of the City.





(Sec. 116.05 - Ord. 1690 - Apr. 11 Supp.)





("Electric" Added to Ch. 116 - Ord. 1690 - Apr. 11 Supp.)




CHAPTER 117
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE



 

117.01  Grant of Franchise
 
117.07  Restoration of Property


117.02  State Code Restrictions and Limitations
 
117.08  Indemnification


117.03  Installation
 
117.09  Standards of Operation


117.04  Location
 
117.10  Assignment


117.05  Trimming Trees
 
117.11  Forfeiture


117.06  Relocation of Property
 
117.12  Franchise Fee



 



117.01  GRANT OF FRANCHISE.



There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns the right
and franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City
a system for the transmission and distribution of electric energy and
communications signals along, under, over and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys and public places to serve customers within and without the City and
to furnish and sell electric energy to the City and its inhabitants.  For
the term of the franchise the Company is granted the right of eminent domain,
the exercise of which is subject to Council approval upon application by the
Company.  The franchise shall be effective for a 20-year period beginning on
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter 6 (which shall
be the date upon which the franchise ordinance is accepted by the Company);
provided however, there may be a reevaluation prior to the end of year 10,
with the opportunity for either party to request amendments in writing.  If
neither party requests such reevaluation by means of a written notice to the
other party during the last 120 days of year 10, the franchise will continue
as approved for the remaining 10 years.  If a request to amend the franchise
is submitted and the parties are unable to agree to amend the franchise, then
the franchise may be terminated at the end of year 10 by either the City or
the Company.



117.02  STATE CODE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.



The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa.



117.03  INSTALLATION.



The Company shall furnish reasonable, adequate and efficient electric service
to the residents of the City and shall maintain its systems in reasonable
repair and working order and provide adequate facilities for such
maintenance.  The Company’s plant and equipment, including all
transmission lines and other distribution facilities, shall be installed in
accordance with good engineering practices and shall be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed, repaired, maintained and
operated in accordance with the rules of the Iowa Utilities Board or its
successor, and the National Electrical Safety Code so as not to endanger or
interfere with the lives of persons, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic to public ways, places and structures.  The
erection, installation, construction, replacement, removal, repair,
maintenance, and operation of the electric system shall be in accordance with
all applicable laws, regulations and codes of the State and all applicable
ordinances, regulations and codes of the City.



117.04  LOCATION.



All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment erected by
the Company within the City shall be located as to cause minimum interference
with the properties of streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and
to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of
property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public
ways and places.  The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary
poles and to place thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as
well as to excavate and bury conductors for the distribution of electric
energy and communications signals in and through the City, but all said
conduits and poles shall be placed so as not to interfere with the
construction of any water pipes, drain or sewer or the flow of water
therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be located by authority of the
City.



117.05  TRIMMING TREES.



The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense
any trees extending into any street, alley, or public ground to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent
limbs, branches or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of
the Company.  The pruning of trees shall be done to current nationally
accepted safety and utility industry standards.



117.06  RELOCATION OF PROPERTY.



The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its
installations in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in
such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes
of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of
the street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement.  If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street,
alley or public improvements, which alternative route would not cause the
relocation of the Company installations, the City shall select said
alternative route.  If relocation of the Company facilities could be avoided
by relocating other franchisee’s or facility user’s equipment and
facilities, and said other franchisee’s or user’s cost of relocation is
less than the Company’s cost of relocation, the City will select the route
that requires the other franchisees or users to relocate.  If project funds
from a source other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of
utility facilities, the City shall use its best efforts to secure said funds
and provide them to the Company to compensate the Company for the costs of
relocation.



117.07  RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.



In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for
the excavation of conduits or the erection of poles and wires or other
appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably obstruct the use of the
streets and shall replace the surface, restoring the original condition as
nearly as practicable.



117.08  INDEMNIFICATION.



Company shall indemnify and save harmless City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, caused or occasioned, or allegedly caused or
occasioned, in whole or in part, by Company’s negligence in construction,
reconstruction, excavation, operation or maintenance of the electric
facilities authorized by the franchise, provided, however, that the Company
shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save harmless the City for
any costs or damages arising from the negligence of the City, its officers,
employees or agents.  The Company shall purchase and maintain insurance to
protect the City throughout the duration of the franchise.  Coverage may be
provided under a program of self insurance.  The Company’s indemnification
obligations under the franchise shall survive the expiration, cancellation,
or termination of the franchise.



117.09  STANDARDS OF OPERATION.



During the term of the franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy
in the quantity and quality consistent with applicable Iowa laws and
regulations.



117.10  ASSIGNMENT.



The franchise shall apply and bind the City and the Company, their successors
and assigns, provided that any assignment by the Company shall be subject to
the approval of the Council by resolution, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld, except that no consent shall be required for any assignment or
transfer by merger, consolidation or reorganization.  The City shall have 60
days after the effective date of the assignment to adopt the resolution.  If
the City fails to adopt a resolution affirming or rejecting the assignment
during the 60-day period, the assignment shall be deemed approved.  The
Company shall provide notice to the City in the event of an assignment of the
franchise.



117.11  FORFEITURE.



The violation of any material portion of the franchise by the Company, or its
failure to perform any of the provisions of the franchise, may be cause for
forfeiture of the franchise and the termination of all rights under this
chapter.  Such forfeiture may be accomplished after written notice to the
Company by the City, and a continuation of the violation, failure or default
specified in the notice for at least 60 days from the date the notice was
served upon the Company, unless a different cure period is agreed upon by the
parties.  If the City determines there to be a default under the franchise,
it shall provide a written notice to the Company describing the default,
stating whether a forfeiture and termination of the franchise will be sought,
and where the default is curable, proposing a reasonable time to cure the
default, which shall be not less than sixty (60) days.  Company may respond
to such notice, proposing a different time to accomplish the cure of the
default.  If Company has not cured the default within the agreed-upon cure
period, the City may proceed to terminate the franchise agreement and the
same shall be deemed forfeited by the Company as provided above.



117.12  FRANCHISE FEE.



In consideration of the right and franchise granted to MidAmerican Energy
Company (the "Company") in Section 117.01 herein, a franchise fee is hereby
imposed effective May 1, 2011, equal to two percent (2%) of the gross
receipts minus uncollectable amounts derived by the Company in the City of
Ankeny for the delivery and sale of electric energy.



1.   The amount of franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility
bill to each customer.  The Company shall remit collected franchise fees to
the City on a quarterly basis, within thirty (30) days after the last day of
the last revenue month of each quarter of the calendar year (i.e. remitted by
April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31).  The City shall not modify
the level of the franchise fee more frequently than once in any twelve (12)
month period.



2.   The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any
amounts collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such franchise fees
for purposes allowed by Iowa law and as set forth in the Revenue Purpose
Statement previously adopted by the City.



3.   The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers' bills in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapters 362.2(f) and 423B.5, except for the City's
bills which shall be exempt from the franchise fee.



4.   Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval
authorizing annexation or changes in the corporate boundaries of the City,
the City Clerk shall provide written notification to the Company of such
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, and the Company
shall apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, commencing no
more than ninety (90) days after receipt of the written notice and City's
verification of the area added to the City.



5.   To fulfill the purpose and intent of this section, the City and the
Company may enter into an agreement addressing the implementation of the
collection of the franchise fee, which agreement shall be approved by
resolution of the City.



6.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this section
is modified or repealed if:



   A.   Any other person is authorized to sell electricity or natural
gas at retail to City consumers and the City imposes a franchise fee or its
lawful equivalent at zero or a lesser rate than provided in this section, in
which case the obligation of Company to collect and remit franchise fee shall
be modified to zero or the lesser rate;



   B.   The City adds additional territory by annexation or
consolidation and is unable or unwilling to impose the franchise fee upon all
persons selling electricity or natural gas at retail to consumers within the
additional territory, in which case the franchise fee imposed on the revenue
from sales by Company in the additional territory shall be zero or equal to
that of the lowest fee being paid by any other retail seller of electricity
or natural gas within the City; or




   C.   Legislation is enacted by the Iowa General Assembly or the
Supreme Court of Iowa issues a final ruling regarding franchise fees or the
Iowa Utilities Board issues a final nonappealable order (collectively, "final
franchise fee action") that modifies, but does not repeal, the ability of the
City to impose a franchise fee or the ability of Company to collect from City
customers and remit franchise fees to City.  Within a reasonable time of
final franchise fee action, the City and Company shall meet to determine
whether this section can be revised, and, if so, how to revise the franchise
fee on a continuing basis to meet revised legal requirements.  After final
franchise fee action and until passage by the City of revisions to the
franchise fee section, Company may temporarily discontinue collection and
remittance of the franchise fee if in its sole opinion it believes it is
required to do so in order to comply with revised legal requirements.





(Ord. 1686 - Apr. 11 Supp.)




 


Notes

6 
† EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 1509, adopting a natural gas franchise
for the City, was passed and adopted on May 16, 2005. 

 



CHAPTER 118
TELEPHONE FRANCHISE



 

118.01  Franchise Granted
 
118.06  Tree Trimming


118.02  Service Requirements
 
118.07  Street Obstructions


118.03  Installation and Maintenance of Service Facilities
 
118.08  Indemnification


118.04  General Location Requirements
 
118.09  Franchise Tax


118.05  Grantee’s Duty To Restore Ground Surface
 



 



118.01  FRANCHISE GRANTED.



The Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, 7 a corporation, its successors and
assigns (hereinafter referred to as “Grantee”), is hereby granted and
vested with the nonexclusive right, franchise and privilege for a period of
twenty-five (25) years from the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, 8 to acquire, construct, operate and maintain in the City the
necessary facilities for the production, and sale of telephone services for
public and private use and to construct and maintain along, upon, across and
under the streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges and public places the
necessary fixtures and equipment for such purposes.



118.02  SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.



The Grantee shall furnish reasonable, adequate and efficient telephone
service to the residents of the City and shall maintain its system in
reasonable repair and working order and provide equal facilities to the
public and to all connecting lines for the transmission of communications in
accordance with the laws of the State of Iowa and the Rules and Regulations
of the Iowa Utilities Board.



118.03  INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE FACILITIES.



The Grantee’s plant and equipment, including all transmission lines,
whether overhead or underground, and other distribution facilities shall be
installed in accordance with good engineering practices and shall be located,
erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed, repaired, maintained
and operated so as not to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons, or
to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic to public
ways, places and structures.  The erection, installation, construction,
replacement, removal, repair, maintenance, and operation of the transmission
system shall be in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
codes of the State and applicable ordinances, regulations and codes of the
City.  The Grantee shall restore all property of the City and of the
inhabitants thereof to its original condition after the installation of
either overhead or underground transmission lines.



118.04  GENERAL LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.



All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment erected by
the Grantee within the City shall be located as to cause minimum interference
with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and
to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of
property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public
ways and places.  Grantee shall, upon 90 days’ written notice, remove or
relocate said lines if the right-of-way upon which said lines are located is
altered or changed for any reason.  Such removal or relocation shall be
undertaken at the sole expense of Grantee.



118.05  GRANTEE’S DUTY TO RESTORE GROUND SURFACE.



In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway, or other
surfacing, the Grantee shall at its own cost and expense and in a manner
approved by the City Engineer, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk,
driveway or surface of any street or alley disturbed in as good a condition
as before said work was commenced.



118.06  TREE TRIMMING.



The Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places of the City so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with the transmission or
distribution lines of the Grantee, all trimming to be done at the expense of
the Grantee.



118.07  STREET OBSTRUCTIONS.



Any opening or obstruction in the streets or other public ways made by the
Grantee in the course of its operations, pursuant to the authority granted
hereunder, shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of
adequate barriers, fences or boarding, the bounds of which during periods of
dusk and darkness shall be clearly designated by warning lights.



118.08  INDEMNIFICATION.



In the conduct of its operation pursuant to the franchise, the Grantee shall
at all times use due care and diligence.  The Grantee shall further defend,
indemnify, protect and save harmless the City and its political subdivisions
from and against any and all liability, losses and physical damage to
property and bodily injury or death to any persons from any cause of action
which any person may have or claim to have by reason of any act, conduct,
negligence, fault or misconduct on the part of the Grantee, its agents,
officers, servants or employees.



118.09  FRANCHISE TAX.



If, during the term of the franchise, there shall be enacted by the Iowa
General Assembly a valid taxing statute authorizing the City to collect a tax
on the telephone revenues received by Grantee from its customers in the City,
or from any other type of communication service conducted by the Grantee
within the City, and if such tax is levied by the City, the Grantee shall
collect said tax and remit the sums collected to the City under the terms and
provisions of such enacted statute.



 


Notes

7 
† EDITOR’S NOTE:  The franchise has been assigned to Qwest.

8 
‡EDITOR'S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 844 was adopted on May 3, 1982



CHAPTER 119
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE



[Reserved for Future Use]



CHAPTER 120
CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS



[Reserved for Future Use]



CHAPTER 121
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE – BLACK HILLS ENERGY



 

121.01  Grant of Franchise
 
121.06  Information


121.02  State Code Restrictions and Limitations
 
121.07  Extension of System


121.03  Excavations
 
121.08  Quality and Quantity


121.04  Relocation of Facilities
 
121.09  Police Regulations


121.05  Indemnification
 
121.10  Franchise Fee




121.01    GRANT OF FRANCHISE.




There is hereby granted to Black Hills Energy, an Iowa corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns the right
and franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the City
of Ankeny, Iowa, hereinafter called the “City,” a gas distribution
system, to furnish natural gas along, under and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys and public places to serve customers within and without the City and
to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its inhabitants. For the term
of this franchise, the Company is granted the right of eminent domain, the
exercise of which is subject to City Council approval upon application by the
Company. This franchise shall be effective for a fifteen (15) year period
from and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter
†9 .



121.02    STATE CODE RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.



The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2013, or as subsequently
amended or changed.



121.03    EXCAVATIONS.



Subject to the following provisions, Company shall have the right to excavate
in any public street for the purpose of laying, relaying, repairing or
extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and other facilities provided that the
same shall be so placed as not to unreasonably interfere with the
construction of any water pipes, drain or sewer or the flow of water
therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be located by authority of the
City:



1.   Service Requirements.  The Company shall furnish reasonable,
adequate and efficient gas service to the residents of the City and shall
maintain its system in reasonable repair and working order and provide
adequate facilities for such maintenance.  Nothing in this section shall
require the Company to provide gas service unless the services requested are
reasonably within its range of performance and there is a reasonable
expectation that the consumption of gas will warrant the necessary
expenditure.



2.   Use of Public Street or Alley.  The Company shall, excluding
facilities located in private easements (whether titled in Company
exclusively or in Company and other entities), in accordance with Iowa law
including Company’s tariff on file with and made effective by the Iowa
Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended (“Tariff”), at its cost
and expense, locate and relocate its existing facilities or equipment in, on,
over or under any public street or alley in the City in such a manner as the
City may reasonably require for the purposes of facilitating the
construction,  reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the street or alley.



3.   Installation and Maintenance of Service Facilities.  The Company's
equipment and distribution facilities shall be installed in accordance with
good engineering practices and shall be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, replaced, removed, repaired, maintained and operated so as not
to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons, or to unnecessarily
hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic to public ways, places and
structures.  The erection, installation, construction, replacement, removal,
repair, maintenance and operation of the gas system shall be in accordance
with all applicable laws, ordinances, regulations and codes of the Federal,
State and City.



4.   Distribution Facilities - General Location Requirements. All
distribution lines and equipment shall be installed by the Company according
to the current city design standards and construction standards.  Said
facilitiesshall be located as to cause minimum interference with the proper
use of streets and other public ways, and to cause minimum interference with
the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the
said streets or other public ways.



5.   Conditions for Use and Occupancy of City Rights-of-Way and Utility
Easements. The Company shall be allowed to use and occupy the City
rights-of-way for the emplacement of its equipment; provided, however,
Company shall be required to use subdivision utility easements to the extent
such easements provide for the construction and operation of gas equipment
therein.  Further provided, in such use and occupancy of City rights-of-way
and subdivision utility easements, Company shall be subject to all generally
applicable State law and City ordinances and obligations therein including,
but not limited to, those provisions of this Code of Ordinances regulating
the use and occupancy of such rights-of-way, pertaining to excavations and
pertaining to streets and sidewalks.  The Company shall not construct or
reconstruct any facility including wiring, underground conduits, manholes,
structures or system equipment until Company has secured the necessary
permits from the City, or other applicable governmental authorities. If the
Company fails to complete any work required by the City or any work required
by other law or ordinance within the time established and to the satisfaction
of the City, the City may cause such work to be done and the Company shall
reimburse the City the costs thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt of
any itemized list of such costs.



6.   Company’s Duty to Relocate.  If at any time, the City undertakes a
street or utility improvement project and said project alters the street
grade, street dimensions or public utility locations such that said
improvement project requires the relocation of the Company’s facilities
along the project corridor, the Company shall complete the relocation at its
own expense.  Such relocation may include removing, relaying, or lowering
underground conduits, manholes, or other gas distribution fixtures so that
the city improvement project is not impeded.  The Company’s relocation
work shall be completed in a timely manner and coordinated with the said City
improvement project so that the construction of the City project is not
delayed.



7.   Company’s Duty to Not Obstruct and to Restore.  In making
excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation of gas pipes, conduits or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Company agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current City
code regarding its depth and composition.



8.   Company’s Duty to Restore Ground Surface. In case of any
disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway, or other surfacing, the Company
shall at its own cost and expense and in a timely manner approved by the City
Engineer, replace and restore all sod, paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface
of any street or alley disturbed in as good a condition as before said work
was commenced. All work shall be completed in conformance with current City
design and construction standards.



9.   City to Survey and Stake.  The City shall be responsible for
surveying and staking the right-of-way for City projects that require the
Company to relocate Company facilities. If requested the City shall provide,
at no cost to the Company, copies of its relocation plan and profile and
cross section drawings.



10.   Street Obstructions.  Any opening or obstruction in the streets or
other public ways made by the Company in the course of its operation,
pursuant to the authority granted hereunder, shall be guarded and protected
at all times by the placement of traffic control, including advance signing,
barricades or fencing in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices and City of Ankeny Standards.



121.04    RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.



Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities as may be required by Section 3
of this chapter, if the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its
existing facilities or equipment in order to directly or indirectly
facilitate the project of a commercial or private developer or other
non-public entity, City shall require the developer or non-public entity to
reimburse the Company for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocation. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to
facilitate such private project at its expense.



121.05    INDEMNIFICATION.



The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation
or maintenance of the natural gas facilities authorized by this franchise;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend,
indemnify and save harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent
arising from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.



121.06    INFORMATION.



Upon reasonable request the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the location, relative to boundaries
of the right of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it has
control that is located in city right of way, including documents, maps and
other information in paper or electronic or other forms
(“Information”).  The Company and City recognize the Information may in
whole or part be considered a confidential record under state or federal law
or both. Therefore, the City shall not release any Information without prior
consent of the Company and shall return the Information to Company upon
request. City recognizes that Company claims the Information may constitute a
trade secret or is otherwise protected from public disclosure by state or
federal law on other grounds and agrees to retain the Information in its
non-public files. Furthermore, the City agrees that no documents, maps or
information provided to the City by the Company shall be made available to
the public or other entities if such documents or information are exempt from
disclosure under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure
requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113,or Chapter 22 of the Code
of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended from time to time.



121.07    EXTENSION OF SYSTEM.



The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate, and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors and Iowa law.



121.08    QUALITY AND QUANTITY.



During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish natural gas in
the quantity and quality consistent and in accordance with the applicable
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board the Company’s tariff made effective
by the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors and Iowa law.



121.09    POLICE REGULATIONS.



All reasonable and proper police regulations as are requested by the Company
shall be brought forth and if adopted shall be enforced by the City for the
protection of the facilities of the Company.



121.10    FRANCHISE FEE.



In consideration of the right and franchise granted to the Company, a
franchise fee is hereby imposed, effective on February 21, 2014, equal to two
percent (2%) of the gross receipts minus uncollectable amounts derived by the
Company in the City for the delivery and sale of natural gas.



1.   The amount of franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility
bill to each customer.  The Company shall remit collected franchise fees to
the City on a quarterly basis, within thirty (30) days after the last day of
the last revenue month of each quarter of the calendar year (i.e. remitted by
April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31).  The City shall not modify
the level of the franchise fee more frequently than once in any twelve (12)
month period.



2.   The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any
amounts collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such franchise fees
for purposes allowed by Iowa law and as set forth in the Revenue Purpose
Statement previously adopted by the City.



3.   The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers’ bills in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapters 362.2(f) and 423B.5, except for the
City’s bills which shall be exempt from the franchise fee.



4.   Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval
authorizing annexation or changes in the corporate boundaries of the City,
the City Clerk shall provide written notification to the Company of such
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, and the Company
shall apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the
annexation or change in the corporate boundaries of the City, commencing no
more than ninety (90) days after receipt of the written notice and City’s
verification of the area added to the City.



5.   To fulfill the purpose and intent of this Section, the City and the
Company may enter into an agreement addressing the implementation of the
collection of the franchise fee, which agreement shall be approved by
resolution of the City.



(Ch. 121 - Ord. 1793 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



CHAPTER 122
UTILITY LICENSES



 



122.01  Purpose
 
122.11  Permissive Denial


122.02  Permits Required
 
122.12  Sale, Assignment, or Change In Use


122.03  Installation and Location
 
122.13  System Expansion


122.04  Company’s Duty to Relocate
 
122.14  System Abandonment


122.05  Temporary Support
 
122.15  Small Wireless Facility Permit


122.06  Indemnification
 
122.16  Permit Fees


122.07  Insurance Certificate
 
122.17  Permit Terms


122.08  Performance Bond
 
122.18  Revocation


122.09  Submittal of Plans
 
122.19  Effective Date


122.10  Other Obligations
 





122.01    PURPOSE.




The City of Ankeny's street right-of-way areas are owned by the city
primarily for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian passage and for
facilitating the city's essential public services and safety.  The city
recognizes that it holds the right-of-way within its boundaries as an asset
in trust for its citizens.  This chapter provides for uniform permitting
procedures for the installation and maintenance of private or commercial
utility and communication facilities within the City of Ankeny rights-of-way
and on city property.  This chapter also provides for the recovery of
expenses from non-franchise utility companies using the public rights-of-way
for private gain.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.02    PERMITS REQUIRED. 



A person, corporation or company (hereafter referred to as "Company") that
does not hold a franchise agreement with the City of Ankeny and proposes to
install utility or communication facilities within the City of Ankeny
right-of-way or other city property shall be required to obtain permits as
provided in this chapter.  Furthermore, the Company shall be required to
obtain a Right-of-Way Permit in accordance with  Chapter 151.



1.   The utility accommodation for franchise utility companies is defined
by Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa and is included in the Chapters 115
through 121 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ankeny.  Franchise
utilities are thus exempt from the permit requirements of this section.



2.   Utility / communication installations that, in the opinion of the
public works director, are not of a significant scope to warrant permitting,
shall be exempt from this chapter.  Said installations are subject to the
requirements of Chapter 151.



3.   Small Wireless Facilities are compact, low power wireless
communication transceivers generally mounted on street lights or utility
poles within the street right-of-way.  These specific utility installations
are subject to a Small Wireless Facility Permit in accordance with Section
122.15 of this chapter.



4.   The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the
restrictions and limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa, or as
subsequently amended or changed.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.03    INSTALLATION AND LOCATION.  



Subject to the following provisions and conditions, the Company shall have
the right to excavate within the street right-of-way for the purpose of
laying, relaying, repairing or extending pipes, mains, conduits,
communication cables and other facilities provided that the same shall be so
placed as to not unreasonably interfere with the construction of any water
pipes, sewer pipes or the flow of water therefrom, which have been or may
hereafter be located by authority of the city.



1.   Installation and Maintenance of Service Facilities.  The Company's
equipment and distribution facilities shall be installed in accordance with
good engineering practices and shall be located, constructed, repaired and
operated so as not to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons, or to
unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The
construction, repair, maintenance and operation of the Company’s facilities
shall be in accordance with all applicable laws, ordinances, regulations and
codes of the Federal, State and city.



2.   Company’s Duty to Not Obstruct and to Restore.  Company’s
facilities shall be located as to cause no interference with the proper use
of streets and other public ways, and to cause minimum interference with the
rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the
said streets or other public ways.  In making excavations in any streets for
the installation of pipes, conduits or apparatus, the Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Said practices shall meet the requirements of the current edition of the Iowa
Statewide Urban Standard Specifications, which function as the city standard
construction specifications. Any opening or obstruction in the streets or
other public ways made by the Company in the course of its operation,
pursuant to the authority granted hereunder, shall be guarded and protected
at all times by the placement of traffic control, including advance signing,
barricades or fencing in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices.



3.   Underground Installation. All cables, wires, fibers, pipes and
conduits installed in connection with any utility system shall be installed
underground, except where above-ground connections to buildings or other
locations where necessary as verified by the public works director. 
Existing wood poles within the right-of-way may be used for above-ground
utility installations, if permission is obtained from the owners of said
poles and public works director.



4.   Limitation of Space. The public works director shall have the
authority to prohibit the placement of new or additional equipment within the
right-of-way if there is insufficient space available to occupy the
right-of-way. In making such decisions, the public works director shall
strive to the extent possible to accommodate all users, but shall be guided
primarily by considerations of the condition of the right-of-way, the time of
year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing
equipment in the right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements
and development projects.



5.   Company’s Duty to Restore Ground Surface. The Company shall, at its
own expense and in a timely manner approved by the public works director,
promptly replace and restore all sod, sidewalk, driveway, or street pavement
disturbed by the Companies operations. Said restoration shall provide as good
a finished condition as before said work was commenced. All work shall be
completed in conformance with current city design and construction standards.



122.04    COMPANY’S DUTY TO RELOCATE.



If at any time, the City of Ankeny undertakes a street or utility improvement
project and said project alters the street grade, street dimensions or public
utility locations such that said improvement project requires the relocation
of the Company’s facilities along the project corridor, the Company shall
complete the relocation at its own expense.  Such relocation may include
removing, relaying, or lowering underground facilities or other equipment. 
The Company’s relocation work shall be completed in a timely manner and
coordinated with the said city improvement project so that the construction
of the city project is not delayed.  For specific city improvement projects,
the Company shall relocate their facilities prior to the scheduled
construction start date when provided with at least a 120 day notice by the
city.



122.05    TEMPORARY SUPPORT.



When a city crew or a city contractor performs work in the right-of-way and
finds it necessary to maintain, support, or temporarily move a Company's
equipment in order to protect it, the costs associated therewith will be
billed to that Company. In such event, the public works director shall notify
the affected Company of the action the city intends to take with respect to
such equipment and shall afford such company the opportunity to take the
action necessary to support or temporarily move its equipment to facilitate
the city operation.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.06    INDEMNIFICATION. 



The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the city from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction or maintenance of the utility
facilities authorized by this ordinance; However, the Company shall not be
obligated to defend, indemnify and save harmless the city for any costs or
damages to the extent arising from the negligence of the city, its officers,
employees or agents.



122.07    INSURANCE CERTIFICATE.



Before any permit shall be issued, the applicant shall submit or have on file
with the City of Ankeny a certificate of insurance evidencing the existence
of liability insurance deemed adequate by the city to cover the risk
presented by the work being undertaken in the right-of-way. The type and
limits of insurance shall meet the requirements of the current edition of the
SUDAS Standard Specifications, Section 1070, with the city listed as an
additional insured party on the certificate.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.08    PERFORMANCE BOND. 



Before any permit shall be issued, the applicant shall post a performance
bond with the City of Ankeny to cover the expenses necessary to restore
disturbed surfaces, repair existing pavements, replace sod, replace
landscaping and otherwise provide restoration of the right-of-way that is
disturbed by the construction associated with the utility installation within
the right-of-way.  The amount of the bond shall be $10,000.00 unless the
public works director determines that a larger amount is necessary to be
sufficient to cover the cost of restoring the right-of-way to its proper and
required condition pursuant to the city's standard construction
specifications.  The performance bond shall be a surety bond in accordance
with the requirements of the current edition of the SUDAS Standard
Specifications, Section 1070.



1.   If the Company fails or neglects to properly restore the right-of-way
to its proper condition within a reasonable time after notice by the public
works director of such failure or neglect, or fails to pay restoration costs
incurred by the city to cure, the restoration costs as certified by the
public works director shall be promptly paid by the Company or bonding
company as the case may be.



2.   In lieu of filing a performance bond in connection with each separate
permit application, an applicant with numerous concurrent utility projects
may, at the discretion of the public works director, be allowed to post with
the City of Ankeny an alternate form of security in the form of an annual
performance bond, letter of credit, certificate of deposit, or certified
check in an amount deemed sufficient by the public works director, but in no
event less than $10,000.00 per utility installation, to secure the
applicant's performance of the restoration work which the applicant will
become responsible for during the next 12-month period.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.09    SUBMITTAL OF PLANS.



The Company that intends to construct new facilities or intends to undertake
a major maintenance project within the right-of-way shall submit construction
plans to the public works department. Such plans shall be submitted using a
format designated or approved by the public works director and shall contain
the information determined by the public works director to be necessary to
facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of excavations and
obstructions within the right-of-way. The plan shall include but not be
limited to the following information: (i) existing utilities and ground
features that are readily available.  (ii) the specific locations and the
beginning and ending points of all equipment and facilities to be installed.
(iii) information indicating the horizontal and vertical locations, relative
to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which is proposed for
installation within any right-of-way.



122.10    OTHER OBLIGATIONS.



Obtaining a permit to install utility equipment in the City of Ankeny
right-of-way does not relieve the Company of the duty to obtain all other
necessary permits, licenses, and authority required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation, Polk County or other state and federal rules, laws or
regulations. The Company shall comply with all requirements of local, state
and federal laws, including I.C. § 480.1 et seq., pertaining to underground
facilities information (Iowa One-Call excavation notice system).



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.11    PERMISSIVE DENIAL.



The public works director may deny a permit request in order to protect the
public health, safety and welfare; to prevent interference with the safety
and convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way; or when necessary
to protect the right-of-way and its users. In determining to deny a permit,
the public works director will consider the following factors: (i) the extent
to which right-of-way space is available; (ii) the competing demands for the
particular space in the right-of-way; (iii) the availability of other
locations or other right-of-way.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.12    SALE, ASSIGNMENT, OR CHANGE IN USE. 



The Company shall not transfer its equipment located in the right-of-way or
its business to any other entity without giving the City of Ankeny a 90-day
prior written notice of such proposed transfer.  The city may refuse consent
to a proposed transfer if it determines that the proposed transferee lacks
the expertise, experience, financial resources or sufficient personnel
required to maintain the said equipment and/or the right-of-way associated
therewith.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.13    SYSTEM EXPANSION.



The Company shall not expand, enlarge, or change the use of its equipment
within the right-of-way without giving the city a 90-day prior written notice
of such proposed change in use and without obtaining the prior written
consent of the public works director to such change in use. In such notice,
the registrant shall clearly and completely set forth the proposed change in
use of equipment.  Enlarging or expanding an existing utility within the
right-of-way will require the same application process and fee requirements
as an initial installation of facilities.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.14    SYSTEM ABANDONMENT.



Any company that abandons or ceases use of its equipment within the right of
way shall make provisions to remove said equipment from the right-of-way
within the next 12 months.  Any delay or suspension of this requirement
shall be approved by the public works director.  Unused underground
conduits, cables, and pipes may be abandoned in-place (without removal) only
upon approval of the public works director.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.15    SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT.



Small Wireless Facilities are compact, low power wireless communication
transceivers which can be mounted on street lights or utility poles within
the street right-of-way or on other city property pending issuance of a
permit.  Subject to the following provisions and conditions, a company that
proposes to install a Small Wireless Facility (SWF) on an existing street
light pole within the city right-of-way, on a new pole within the
right-of-way, or on other facilities owned by the City of Ankeny within the
right-of-way or on city property, shall be subject to a Small Wireless
Facility Permit according to this section.



1.   Said Small Wireless Facility installations are subject to the
requirements of Chapter 151 in addition to the requirements of this section.



2.   The SWF permit and corresponding fee applies only to the spot
facility installation.  The permits identified in Section 122.02 and
subsequent sections of this chapter shall apply to any wiring and conduits
that are installed within the right-of-way to provide power or fiber optics
to the SWF. 



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



3.   Locations of Small Wireless Facilities:  The strong preference for
locations of SWF's within Ankeny are on non-City owned poles and
infrastructure.  If city infrastructure must be used, it shall be on
streetlights, buildings or towers.  SWF installations shall be restricted
from city traffic signal poles due to the complexity of the signal systems
present in the poles.  Also, the city traffic signals are located at
high-traffic volume intersections where SWF installations would create safety
hazards and disruption to traffic. 



   A.   SWF installations shall be located as far as feasible from
residential neighborhoods.  Installations along some of Ankeny's main
corridors may not be possible due to the quantity of existing utilities
within those corridors.  Alternate locations will be coordinated with the
City.



   B.   New poles that are installed within the right-of-way to
facilitate a SWF installation shall meet the requirements of the zoning
district that applies to the adjacent property, including height and
appearance.  Said new poles shall match the height of any surrounding poles.
SWF installations on new poles will be considered by the city only after
exhausting options for SWF installations on existing poles. 



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



   C.   A separation distance of at least one city block or
approximately 300 feet shall be maintained between SWF installations.  A
lesser distance may be allowed by the city when it is justified by the
applicant due to coverage or service gap issues. 



4.   Aesthetics: Small Wireless Facility installations shall be completed
with regard to the aesthetics of the surroundings.  The SWF equipment shall
match the color, dimensions and style of the host pole and nearby poles as
closely as possible.  For SWF installations that include the replacement of
a street light pole, the replacement pole shall match the color, dimensions,
height and style of the existing street light pole.  For uniformity of
lighting, any replacement street light poles shall have the same fixture type
and wattage as the existing street light.



   A.   Uptown Ankeny and The District at Prairie Trail are special
commercial districts within Ankeny that have black decorative street
lights.  SWF installations within these districts will need to utilize
existing poles or replacement poles that match the exact style of the
existing decorative street lights.



   B.   Screening:  If a SWF installation does not aesthetically blend
in to the surrounding environment, screening of the equipment may be required
by the City.  Screening features shall be approved by the city and may
include camouflage treatments or solid coverings that fully mask the SWF
equipment from view and environmentally match the surrounding.



   C.   For a SWF installation within the right-of-way, no other
above-ground equipment such as accessory structures or cabinets at-grade will
be allowed.



   D.   The total volume of the equipment and fixtures that comprises a
SWF shall not exceed 28 cubic feet exclusive of the antenna.  No guy wires
or other auxiliary supports can be used to fortify a SWF installation. 



5.   Structural Certification:  As part of the permit application
process, each SWF installation shall be certified by a professional engineer
licensed in Iowa that the installation will be structurally sound in
accordance with applicable standards including the National Electric Safety
Code, ANSI, TIA, and EIA standards. 



6.   Discontinuation and Relocation:  If an SWF is no longer needed, the
service provider shall immediately inform the city.  Any SWF within the city
that is no longer in operation shall be considered abandoned and shall be
removed by the service provider within 12 months.



   A.   If the city undertakes a street or utility project that will
require the relocation or modification of an existing SWF, the service
provider shall accommodate the City project by scheduling and completing the
relocation or modification so that the City project is not delayed in
accordance with Sections 122.04 and 122.05 of this chapter.  All costs
associated with the relocation or modification of the SWF shall be the
responsibility of the service provider. 



(Ord. 1970 - May 19 Supp.)



122.16    PERMIT FEES.



Fees for the various permits as specified in this section shall be paid by
the Company prior to the occupation and use of the right-of-way by the
Company for the provision of utility enterprise services.



1.   Right-of-Way Permit Fee:  A right-of-way permit fee as stipulated in
Chapter 151 - Excavations shall be charged to the Company for each permit
application.



2.   Plan Review Fee:  A plan review fee shall be charged to the Company
when submitting plans and specifications for a new or expanded utility
installation of at least 300 feet in length or for a utility equipment
installation within the right-of-way that, in the opinion of the public works
director, is of sufficient scope and complexity to require an in-depth review
by city staff.  The plan review fee is intended to recover the salary,
benefits, and overhead costs to the city of the city employees reviewing such
plans and specifications.



3.   Occupancy Permit Fee:  The Company shall pay an occupancy permit fee
based on the amount of equipment that is proposed to be installed within the
City of Ankeny street right-of-way, measured in equivalent lineal feet as
stipulated as follows. The occupancy permit fee shall be determined by
multiplying that user's number of equivalent lineal feet of equipment in city
right-of-way by the fee amount set forth as follows.



   A.   The occupancy permit fee shall reflect the diminution in the
functional utility of the right-of-way for use by the city and shall be based
upon such factors as the value of private property abutting the right-of-way
to be used and the Company's avoided cost in using the city right-of-way as
opposed to establishing a private easement. 



4.   Schedule of Permit Fees:  The following permit fees shall be paid by
the Company for each separate utility installation, in conformance with the
requirements of Iowa Code Chapter 480A.  These fee amounts shall be in
effect until such time that the fee amounts are amended by the city council
by resolution:



   A.   Right-of-Way Permit Fee = (per Chapter 151)



   B.   Plan Review Fee = $300.00



   C.   Occupancy Permit Fee:



      ∙   $200.00 for linear utility installations within the
right-of-way of a length of 1,500 feet or less.



      ∙   $0.15 per lineal foot for linear utility installations
within the right-of-way of a length greater than 1,500 feet.



      ∙   The occupancy permit fees for linear underground
installations that occupy a width greater than 2 feet and vault/manhole
structures greater than 6 feet in width shall be prorated by the public works
director, based on the width dimensions and the said fee for a 2-foot
occupation width.



5.   Small Wireless Facility Permit Fees:  The Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) issued a Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order dated
September 18, 2018 which clarified the scope and meaning of the
Communications Act Sections 253 and 332(c)(7).  This document established
the compensation to states and cities for permitting a Small Wireless
Facility (SWF) to be installed within the said jurisdiction's rights-of-way
or property.  The total amount of fees for processing or issuing a single
permit, including any fees charged by third parties, shall be as the
following:



   A.   $500 for a single up-front application that incudes up to five
SWFs.



   B.   $50 for each SWF beyond five in a single application.



6.   Permit Fee Adjustments:  The total amount of fees shall be adjusted
every five years to reflect any increases or decreases in the consumer price
index, and as dictated by Federal requirements as stipulated in the
Communications Act Sections 253 and 332(c)(7).



7.   The city reserves the right to adjust the schedule of permit fees by
resolution at any time based on the management expenses expended by the city
and the value of the property occupied by the Companies. 



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.17    PERMIT TERMS.



The Utility Permits issued under this chapter shall be issued by the public
works director for a maximum term of five years, with automatic renewal after
the five-year term unless the city issues a notice of revocation per section
122.18 of this chapter.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.18    REVOCATION.



If, during the term of any permit, the public works director determines that
the permit should be revoked due to the Company's failure to comply with the
requirements stated in this chapter including, but not limited to, a failure
to comply with the city on previous projects, failure to timely pay the
required fees, or if continued use of the equipment would be a risk to public
health, safety and welfare, the public works director shall provide a 90-day
notice of intent to revoke such permit.



1.   Upon the effective date of revocation as provided in the public works
director's notice, the Company shall be required to cease its use and
occupancy of the right-of-way and to remove or relocate its equipment within
the following 120 days.



(Ord. 1984 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



122.19    EFFECTIVE DATE. 



This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa
law.  Following City Council approval, this ordinance shall be published in
accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective date of this ordinance shall
be the date of publication. If any section, provision, or part of this
ordinance shall be adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
adjudication shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any
section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.



(Ord. 1970 - May 19 Supp.)



(Ch. 122 - Ord. 1855 – Jul. 15 Supp.)



CHAPTER 130
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS



 

130.01  License or Permit Required
 
130.05  Waiver of Certain City Regulations


130.02  General Prohibition
 
130.06  Prohibited Sales and Acts


130.03  Investigation
 
130.07  Outdoor Seating Areas


130.04  Action by Council
 
130.08  Amusement Devices



 



130.01  LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.



No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for
sale, alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 & 123.171)



130.02  GENERAL PROHIBITION.



It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale, possess
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the
Code of Iowa, and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil
penalty may be imposed for a violation thereof. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 & 123.50)



130.03  INVESTIGATION.



The City Clerk shall forward an application for a liquor license, wine or
beer permit to the Police Chief, or designee, to conduct and investigate and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application.  The Fire Chief, or designee, may also inspect the premises to
determine if applicant conforms to the requirements of the City.  The
Council shall not approve an application for a license or permit for any
premises which does not conform to the applicable law and ordinances,
resolutions and regulations of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)




(Ord. 1834 - Apr. 15 Supp.))




130.04  ACTION BY COUNCIL.



The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of the liquor
control license or retail wine or beer permit and shall endorse its approval
or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application, necessary
fee and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic Beverages
Division of the State Department of Commerce for such further action as is
provided by law. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])



130.05  WAIVER OF CERTAIN CITY REGULATIONS.



Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the Council may waive certain
conditions relating to zoning regulations, health and fire regulations, and
other related ordinances and resolutions of the City for businesses or groups
listed below that secure a Class B beer permit or Special Event License as
issued by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.  The waiver of these regulations
may be granted upon showing that the applicant is a bona fide civic group,
service club, or merchants group, and that such waiver is being requested for
use at a carnival, bazaar, centennial, or celebration that has been
authorized by the Council.  The waiver shall be in effect only during the
period of time that the carnival, bazaar, centennial, or other celebration is
being held.




(Ord. 1643 - Jul. 09 Supp.)




130.06  PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.



A person or club holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and
the person’s or club’s agents or employees shall not do any of the
following:



1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic liquor, wine or beer. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])



2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage, wine or beer on the premises
covered by the license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of
2:00 a.m. on Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder
of a license or permit granted the privilege of selling alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, beer or wine
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of the following
Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor control
license or the holder of a class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of
8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is
the day before New Year’s Day.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b and 2k] & 123.150)



3.   Sell alcoholic beverages, wine, or beer to any person on credit,
except with a bona fide credit card.  This provision does not apply to sales
by a club to its members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide
registered guests or to retail sales by the managing entity of a convention
center, civic center, or events center.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])



4.   Employ a person under eighteen (18) years of age in the sale or
serving of alcoholic liquor, wine or beer for consumption on the premises
where sold.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])



5.   In the case of a retail beer or wine permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to beer, wine or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])



6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])



7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])



8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])



9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package which has been reused or adulterated.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])



10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee or employees of
the licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any
alcoholic liquor in any bottle or other container which is designed for the
transporting of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])



11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine which is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a
vaporized form.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])



12.   Permit or allow any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to
remain upon premises licensed for consumption by the drink unless over fifty
percent (50%) of the dollar volume of the business establishment comes from
the sale and serving of prepared foods.



(Ord. 1932 - Feb 18 Supp.)



13.   Sell, offer to sell, dispense, or serve for on-premises consumption
an unlimited number of servings of alcoholic liquor, wine or beer for a fixed
price.  Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit a holder
of a liquor control license or wine or beer permit, or its employees or
agents, from (a) including servings or drinks of alcoholic liquor, wine or
beer as part of a hotel or motel package which includes overnight
accommodations, (b) providing a fixed price for an unlimited or indefinite
amount of drinks for a private event, which is defined as an event restricted
to a particular group or persons, provided that the licensee or permittee
shall provide means or method by which to identify persons participating in
the private event, such as the use of a separate room or an identification
tag or badge, or (c) as otherwise permitted for a special event by the City
Council (provided, however, that no permit holder shall be allowed to hold
such a special event more than twice per year).



130.07  OUTDOOR SEATING AREAS.



Any person who is a licensee or permittee pursuant to this chapter may serve
the type of alcoholic liquor, beer or wine permitted by the license or permit
in an outdoor seating area not contained within a completely enclosed and
covered structure only after complying with the following conditions:



1.   The premises for which a class B beer permit or liquor control
license is sought shall require a special permit for an outdoor seating area
as described in paragraph 196.02(1)(I) if it is less than five hundred (500)
feet from a residential zoning district.  This requirement may be waived by
the City Council upon showing that the applicant for such license conforms to
the requirements of Section 130.05 of this chapter.




(Ord. 1643 - Jul. 09 Supp.)




2.   The outdoor seating area shall be surrounded by a permanent retainer,
which clearly encloses the area adjacent to the licensed establishment, as
follows:



(Ord. 1818 – July 14 Supp.)



   A.   The retainer must measure a minimum of thirty-six inches in
height from finish floor surface to the top of the retainer.



   B.   A permanent retainer shall consist of a top rail with lower
intermediate rails spaced so that a twelve-inch sphere cannot pass through,
or a fence consisting of a top rail with permanent fencing material, both of
which shall be supported by columns or posts spaced no more than ten feet on
center.



   C.   Snow fence or plastic fence shall not be deemed permanent
retainer material for purposes of this section.



   D.   In lieu of paragraphs A through C of this subsection, densely
planted shrubbery may be considered equivalent to the intermediate rails or
fencing, subject to the approval of the building and zoning official.



   E.   One ingress/egress gate shall be allowed for each outdoor
seating area.  The ingress/egress gate shall be constructed and located in
accordance with the Building Code.  It shall be a minimum of 36” in width
and shall provide unobstructed access and illumination for the safety of
patrons.  The gate shall be the same height as the retainer and shall be
installed with a self-closing mechanism.  The gate shall not access directly
onto a parking lot or access drive.



(Ord. 1818 – July 14 Supp.)



3.   Emergency exits, sized and spaced in accordance with the Building
Code, must be provided with a clear and unobstructed access to a public way.



4.   The site shall meet the parking requirements listed in Section 194.01
of this Code of Ordinances.



5.   Any use of sound, other than sound arising from conversation of
patrons, shall require a special use permit for an outdoor seating area as
described in paragraph 196.02(1)(I) of this Code of Ordinances.  Examples of
sound uses requiring a special use permit shall include but not be limited to
use of speakers to page patrons, use of a sound system to play music and the
playing of live music.



130.08  AMUSEMENT DEVICES.



The following provisions pertain to electronic or mechanical amusement
devices, which are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or
beer permit as specifically authorized in Section 99B.10 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.10C)



1.   As used in this section an “electronic or mechanical amusement
device” means a device that awards a prize redeemable for merchandise on
the premises where the device is located and which is required to be
registered with the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals.



2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
participate in the operation of an electrical or mechanical amusement device.



3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing an electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing an
electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a person under
the age of 21 to participate in the operation of an electrical or mechanical
amusement device.



4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the
operation of an electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.




(Sec. 130.05 - 130.07 renumbered as Sec. 130.06 - 130.08 by Ord. 1643 - Jul.
09 Supp.)




CHAPTER 131
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS



 

131.01  Definitions
 
131.06  Refunds


131.02  Permit Required
 
131.07  Persons Under Legal Age


131.03  Application
 
131.08  Self-Service Sales Prohibited


131.04  Fees
 
131.09  Permit Revocation


131.05  Issuance and Expiration
 



 



131.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)



1.   “Carton” means a box or container of any kind in which ten or
more packages or packs of cigarettes or tobacco products are offered for
sale, sold, or otherwise distributed to consumers.



2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material.  However, this definition is
not to be construed to include cigars.



3.   “Package” or “pack” means a container of any kind in which
cigarettes or tobacco products are offered for sale, sold, or otherwise
distributed to consumers.



4.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes or tobacco
products are sold, stored or kept for the purpose of sale or consumption by a
retailer. 



5.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers
for sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for
consumption, cigarettes, irrespective of the quantity or amount or the number
of sales or who engages in the business of selling tobacco products to
ultimate consumers.



6.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display,
placement or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take
possession of the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the
retailer or employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a
restricted access location.



7.   “Tobacco products” means the following:  cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed
and other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut
and other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or
for both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.



131.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.



1.   Cigarette Permits.  It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes at retail and no retailer shall
distribute, sell, or solicit the sale of any cigarettes within the City
without a valid permit for each place of business.  The permit shall, at all
times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be easily seen
by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of business.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)



2.   Tobacco Permits.  It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco products at any place of business without
first having received a permit as a tobacco products retailer for each place
of business owned or operated by the retailer.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)



A retailer who holds a cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
tobacco permit.  However, if a retailer only holds a cigarette permit and
that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall not sell
any cigarettes or tobacco products during such time.



131.03  APPLICATION.



A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the department and accompanied by
the required fee shall be filed with the Clerk.  Renewal applications shall
be filed at least five (5) days prior to the last regular meeting of the
Council in June.  If a renewal application is not timely filed, and a
special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)



131.04  FEES.



The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows: 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)



 

FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:
 

FEE:



July, August or September
 

$ 100.00



October, November or December
 

$ 75.00



January, February or March
 

$ 50.00



April, May or June
 

$ 25.00




 



131.05  ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.



Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued.  Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable.  All permits expire on June
30 of each year.  The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for
a permit, and any permit issued, to the Iowa Department of Public Health
within thirty (30) days of issuance.



131.06  REFUNDS.



A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa. 



(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)



131.07  PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.



No person shall sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco products
or cigarettes to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.  The provision
of this section includes prohibiting a minor from purchasing cigarettes or
tobacco products from a vending machine.  If a retailer or employee of a
retailer violates the provisions of this section, the Council shall, after
written notice and hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for
such violation, assess the following:



1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00).  Failure to pay the civil
penalty as ordered under this subsection shall result in automatic suspension
of the permit for a period of fourteen (14) days.



2.   For a second violation within a period of two (2) years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) or the retailer’s permit shall be suspended for a
period of thirty (30) days.  The retailer may select its preference in the
penalty to be applied under this subsection.



3.   For a third violation within a period of three (3) years, the
retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) and the retailer’s permit shall be suspended
for a period of thirty (30) days.



4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three (3) years, the
retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) and the retailer’s permit shall be suspended
for a period of sixty (60) days.



5.   For a fifth violation with a period of four (4) years, the
retailer’s permit shall be revoked.



The Clerk shall give ten (10) days’ written notice to the retailer by
mailing a copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the
application for a permit.  The notice shall state the reason for the
contemplated action and the time and place at which the retailer may appear
and be heard. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])



131.08  SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.



Beginning January 1, 1999, except for the sale of cigarettes through a
cigarette vending machine as provided in Section 453A.36(6) of the Code of
Iowa, a retailer shall not sell or offer for sale cigarettes or tobacco
products, in a quantity of less than a carton, through the use of a
self-service display.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)



131.09  PERMIT REVOCATION.



Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of
Iowa or any rule adopted thereunder.  If a permit is revoked, a new permit
shall not be issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any
other person for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until
one year has expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the
contrary is shown to the Council.  The Clerk shall report the revocation or
suspension of a retail permit to the Iowa Department of Public Health within
thirty (30) days of the revocation or suspension.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)



CHAPTER 132
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS



 



132.01  Purpose
 
132.12  Revocation of License


132.02  Definitions
 
132.13  Notice


132.03  License Required
 
132.14  Hearing


132.04  Application for License
 
132.15  Record and Determination


132.05  License Fees
 
132.16  Appeal


132.06  Bond Required
 
132.17  Effect of Revocation


132.07  License Issued
 
132.18  License Exemptions


132.08  License Denied
 
132.19  Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations


132.09  Display of License
 
132.20  Street Vendors


132.10  License Not Transferable
 
132.21  Fireworks License


132.11  Time Restriction
 




 



132.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against
fraud, unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by
licensing and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.



132.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who
sells or offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise
from house to house or upon the public street. 



2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit
from house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or
any order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered
at a future date.  The definition of “solicitor” also includes any
person engaged in the business of bill posting. 



3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary
or itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business 
hires, leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who
operates out of a vehicle which is parked anywhere within the City limits. 
Temporary association with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or
conduct of such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in
the name of any local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt
any person from being considered a transient merchant.



132.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.



Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is
in violation of this chapter.



132.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.



1.   Application.  Application for a license pursuant to this chapter
shall be in writing on forms furnished by the City Clerk.  The application
shall contain the following information:



   A.   The full name, permanent and local address and business
address, if any.  The application shall also set forth the applicant’s
employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature of the
applicant’s business, the last three places of such business, a list of any
vehicles used in the business and license plate number of any such vehicle
and the length of time sought to be covered by the license.  The applicant
shall submit a copy of current photo ID or photo driver’s license, to be
retained by the City Clerk. 



   B.   Any person who applies for, or seeks a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant license must first obtain, at their own expense, his or
her current DCI criminal history report, dated within one year of license
application, through the state Department of Public Safety; and, if such
person is engaging in soliciting by operating out of a vehicle shall provide
a certified copy of his or her current driving record.  If a new applicant
resided outside of Iowa anytime during the five years before applying, the
person must also obtain, at their own expense, a copy of his or her current
criminal history report and certified copy of driving record from each state
of residence during the prior five years.  Any person whose license has been
suspended or revoked, or has expired for more than 30 days, will be required
to obtain a current criminal history report and certified driving record in
the same manner as a new applicant.



   C.   A list of all convictions (convicted of, pled guilty to or
stipulated to the facts of a criminal offense) for criminal offenses, other
than traffic offenses, during the ten years immediately preceding the date of
application. A list of all convictions for traffic violations for which the
applicant’s license was suspended, revoked or barred during the five years
immediately preceding the date of application.



   D.   A statement that the contents of the completed application are
true.



   E.   The date the application is filed.



   F.   Further information as the City Clerk may require.



   G.   $20 non-refundable application fee.



   At the time an application is filed, the applicant shall pay to the
City Clerk the application fees in the amount set forth.



2.   Qualifications of Applicant.  The following words, terms and
phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:



   A.   Good driving record, for the purpose of engaging in soliciting
by operating out of a vehicle, means all of the following:



      (1)   The applicant has not, within the preceding five years,
been convicted of any moving traffic violation which resulted in automatic
suspension or revocation of an operators or chauffeurs license under I.C. Ch.
321, 321A or 321J.



      (2)   The applicant’s operators or chauffeurs license has
not been suspended or revoked for any single moving traffic violation or
combination of moving traffic violations within the preceding five years.



      (3)   The applicant has not, within the preceding one year,
been convicted of three or more moving traffic violations.



      (4)   The applicant has not, within the preceding one year,
been involved in more than one traffic accident in which applicant was at
fault.



   B.   Person of good moral character means any person who:



      (1)   Has such good reputation as will satisfy the licensing
authority that he or she will comply with this chapter and all other laws,
ordinances and regulations applicable to the performance of his or her duties.



      (2)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense involving moral turpitude within the preceding ten
years.



      (3)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense which is a simple misdemeanor, other than those
listed in paragraph B.4., below, with in the preceding five years.



      (4)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense involving theft, assault, drugs, public exposure,
harassment or fraud within the preceding ten years, whether the offense is a
misdemeanor or a felony.



      (5)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense which is a felony other than a forcible felony
within the preceding ten years.



      (6)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of any forcible felony, including any felonious child
endangerment, assault, murder, sexual abuse, kidnapping, robbery, arson in
the first degree or burglary in the first degree, or any sexual motivated
crime.



   C.   Each applicant for a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
license must meet the requirements of this subsection before a license may be
issued.  The applicant shall:



      (1)   Have a good driving record.



      (2)   Be a person of good moral character.



      (3)   Be at least 18 years of age.



      (4)   Not currently on probation or parole.



3.   Prior to issuance of a license, a background investigation of the
applicant shall be conducted by the Police Department.




(Ord. 1797 – Apr. 14 Supp.)




132.05  LICENSE FEES.



The following license fees shall be paid to the City Clerk prior to the
issuance of any license for solicitors (for each person actually soliciting
– principal or agent), peddler or transient merchants.



1.   For one day   $   20.00



2.   For one week   $   30.00



3.   For one month   $   50.00



4.   For one month to six months   $   100.00



(Ord. 1797 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



132.06  BOND REQUIRED.



Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.



132.07  LICENSE ISSUED.



If the City Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be
correct and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.



132.08  LICENSE DENIED.



The license shall be denied if the Clerk finds any of the following:



1.   Applicant does not meet the requirements pursuant to Section 132.04
(2).



2.   Applicant falsified information on the application.



3.   Applicant has been denied a license or has had a license revoked
under this chapter within the last year, unless the applicant can show that
the reasons for denial or revocation no longer exist.



(Ord. 1797 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



132.09  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.



Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all
requirements of this chapter.  Each transient merchant shall display
publicly such merchant’s license in the merchant’s place of business.



132.10  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.



Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.



132.11  TIME RESTRICTION.



All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses
are in force and effect only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday, excluding national holidays.



132.12  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.



After notice and hearing, the City Clerk or the Police Department may revoke
any license issued under this chapter for the following reasons:



1.   Fraudulent Statements.  The licensee has made fraudulent statements
in the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.



2.   Violation of Law.  The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.



3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety.  The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.



132.13  NOTICE.



The City Clerk shall send a notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address, not less than ten (10) days before the date set for a hearing on the
possible revocation of a license.  Such notice shall contain particulars of
the complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State
statutes allegedly violated, and the date, time and place for hearing on the
matter.



132.14  HEARING.



The City Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice.  Should the licensee, or authorized
representative, fail to appear without good cause, the City Clerk may proceed
to a determination of the complaint.



132.15  RECORD AND DETERMINATION.



The City Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law,
and shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the
City Clerk finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of
this chapter or State law.



132.16  APPEAL.



If the City Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the City Clerk shall
make a part of the record the reasons therefor.  The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting.  The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of
the City Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the City
Clerk shall carry out the decision of the Council.



132.17  EFFECT OF REVOCATION.



Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.



132.18  LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.



The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.



1.   Newspapers.  Persons delivering, collecting for or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.



2.   Club Members.  Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout,
Girl Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America and similar organizations.



3.   Local Residents and Farmers.  Local residents and farmers who offer
for sale their own produce on private property.



4.   Students.  Students representing the Ankeny School District
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.



5.   Route Sales.  Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.



6.   Resale or Institutional Use.  Persons customarily calling on
businesses or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.



7.   City-sponsored and/or community events held on City property.



132.19  CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.



Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit money or to
distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections 132.02 and
132.05.  All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the
City Clerk the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are
sought, the name of each representative of the organization, names and
addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, a list of any
vehicles used and the license plate number of any such vehicles, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any
commissions, fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount
thereof.  If the City Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide
charity or nonprofit organization the City Clerk shall issue, free of charge,
a license containing the above information to the applicant.  In the event
the City Clerk denies the exemption, the authorized representatives of the
organization may appeal the decision to the Council, as provided in Section
132.16 of this chapter.



(Ord. 1812 – July 14 Supp.)



132.20  STREET VENDORS. 9



No person shall sell or offer for sale upon the public right-of-way any goods
or merchandise for immediate delivery unless such vendor complies with the
conditions set forth in this section.



1.   Hours of Sales.  All sales made by such vendors must be made only
between 9:00 a.m. and one hour before sundown, and may only be made from a
vehicle which is parked in a driveway or other off-street parking area.



2.   Oscillating Light Required on Vehicle.  Any such vehicle must be
equipped with a yellow or amber oscillating light, mounted to the top
thereof, which light shall be in operation during all times that sales are
being conducted.



3.   Stopping for Delivery Prohibited; Sales on Streets or in Park
Prohibited.  No person operating such a vehicle may stop the same for the
purpose of delivering goods or merchandise on the paved portion of the public
right-of-way, and in no event shall sales be permitted on any collector or
arterial street within the City or within any public park.



4.   Peddler’s License Required.  No person shall sell or offer for
sale goods and merchandise, under the provisions of this section, without
first obtaining a peddler’s license under the provisions of this chapter.



5.   Applicability of Provisions.  The requirements of this section shall
not be deemed to apply to the delivery of goods or merchandise by route
salesmen if such goods or merchandise are delivered to the dwelling of the
customer.



132.21    FIREWORKS LICENSE.



Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter 132, tthe sale of
First-class Consumer Fireworks and Second-class Consumer Fireworks as defined
in Iowa Code Section 727.2 shall not be subject to this Chapter but shall be
in accordance with Ankeny Municipal Code Sections  192.13.



(Ord. 1925 - Nov. 17 Supp.)



 


Notes

9 
† EDITOR’S NOTE:  See also Section 42.07



CHAPTER 133
HOUSE MOVERS



 

133.01  House Mover Defined
 
133.07  Permit Issued


133.02  Permit Required
 
133.08  Public Safety


133.03  Application
 
133.09  Time Limit


133.04  Bond Required
 
133.10  Removal by City


133.05  Insurance Required
 
133.11  Protect Pavement


133.06  Permit Fee
 
133.12  Overhead Wires



 



133.01  HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.



A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or
similar structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the
building or structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids,
jacks, dollies or any other specialized moving equipment.



133.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.



It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building
or similar structure to be moved.  Buildings of less than one hundred (100)
square feet in area and ten (10) feet in height are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.



133.03  APPLICATION.



Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the
Clerk.  The application shall include:



1.   Name and Address.  The applicant’s full name and address and if a
corporation the names and addresses of its principal officers.



2.   Building Location.  An accurate description of the present location
and future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.



3.   Routing Plan.  A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, street
superintendent, and public utility officials.  The route approved shall be
the shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.



133.04  BOND REQUIRED.



The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) issued by a surety company authorized to
issue such bonds in the State.  The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s
payment for any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of
all costs incurred by the City in the course of moving the building or
structure.



133.05  INSURANCE REQUIRED.



Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration
of the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:



1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000 per person; $100,000 per accident.



2.   Property Damage – $50,000 per accident.



133.06  PERMIT FEE.



A permit fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day shall be payable at the
time of filing the application with the Clerk.  A separate permit shall be
required for each house, building or similar structure to be moved.



133.07  PERMIT ISSUED.



Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate,
and payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.



133.08  PUBLIC SAFETY.



At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain
flagmen at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure.  At all times when
the building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or
public property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights
at the intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of
the building or structure.



133.09  TIME LIMIT.



No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than twelve
(12) hours without having first secured the written approval of the City. 
No building or similar structure shall be moved on a holiday or a Saturday or
a Sunday, and no building or similar structure shall be moved between 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 a.m.



133.10  REMOVAL BY CITY.



In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section 133.09 the City is authorized to remove such building or structure
and assess the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the
permit holder’s bond.



133.11  PROTECT PAVEMENT.



It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one (1) inch in width for each one thousand (1,000) pounds of weight of
such building.  If there is any question as to the weight of a house or
building, the estimate of the City as to such weight shall be final.



133.12  OVERHEAD WIRES.



The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone,
cable television and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.



CHAPTER 134
TAXICABS



 



134.01  Definitions
 
134.09  Effect of Revocation


134.02  License Required
 
134.10  Display of License


134.03  Application Procedure
 
134.11  Licensee’s Financial Responsibility


134.04  License Fee
 
134.12  Commercial Driver’s License Required


134.05  License Issuance
 
134.13  Vehicle Condition


134.06  License Refusal; Appeal
 
134.14  Painting of Name Required


134.07  License Nontransferable
 
134.15  Taximeter Required


134.08  Revocation Procedure
 




134.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use within this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Taxicab” means any motor vehicle offered to the public for hire
and used principally in intra-city operation, but not such a vehicle operated
principally in and licensed by another municipality.



2.   “Taxicab license” means a license granted for each taxicab in
accordance with 134.03 of this chapter.



3.   “Taxi driver license” means a license granted for each taxicab
driver in accordance with 134.03 of this chapter.



(Ord. 1796 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



134.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.



It is unlawful to operate a taxicab without a valid Taxicab license or Taxi
driver’s license.



(Ord. 1796 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



134.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.



1.   Taxicab License - Pre-application and Pre-renewal.  Application for
a license pursuant to this chapter shall be in writing on forms furnished by
the City Clerk.  Every application shall include the following information:



   A.   Applicant’s full name and the address of the applicant’s
place of residence.



   B.   Address of the applicant’s business establishment or office,
if any.



   C.   The name and address of place of residence of each operator of
each taxicab licensed.



   D.   The make, model, VIN and State license plate number of each
such taxicab.



   E.   If the applicant is a corporation or other association, it
shall also list the names and addresses of its principal officers.



   F.   The date the application is filed.



   G.   Further information as the City Clerk may require.



   H.   $20 non-refundable application fee.



2.   Taxi Driver License - Pre-application and Pre-renewal.  Any person
seeking a taxicab driver license shall be in writing on forms furnished by
the City Clerk.  The application shall contain the following information:



   A,.   The full name, current mailing address, date of birth, height,
weight and driver’s license number of the applicant.



   B.   Any person who applies for, or seeks to renew, a taxicab driver
license must first obtain, at their own expense, his or her current DCI
criminal history report, dated within one year of taxicab license
application, through the State Department of Public Safety and certified copy
of his or her current driving record.  If a new applicant resided outside of
Iowa anytime during the five years before applying, the person must also
obtain, at their own expense, a copy of his or her current criminal history
report and certified copy of driving record from each state of residence
during the prior five years.  Any person whose taxicab driver license has
been suspended or revoked, or has expired for more than 30 days, will be
required to obtain a current criminal history report and certified driving
record in the same manner as a new applicant.



   C.   A list of all convictions (convicted of, pled guilty to or
stipulated to the facts of a criminal offense) for criminal offenses, other
than traffic offenses, during the ten years immediately preceding the date of
application. A list of all convictions for traffic violations for which the
applicant’s license was suspended, revoked or barred during the five years
immediately preceding the date of application.



   D.   A statement that the contents of the completed application are
true.



   E.   The date the application is filed.



   F.   Further information as the City Clerk may require.



   G.   $20 non-refundable application fee.



   At the time an initial or renewal application is filed the applicant
shall pay to the City Clerk the application fees in the amount set forth.



3.   Qualifications of Applicant.  The following words, terms and
phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:



   A.   Good driving record means all of the following:



      (1)   The applicant has not, within the preceding five years,
been convicted of any moving traffic violation which resulted in automatic
suspension or revocation of an operators or chauffeurs license under I.C. Ch.
321, 321A or 321J.



      (2)   The applicant’s operators or chauffeurs license has
not been suspended or revoked for any single moving traffic violation or
combination of moving traffic violations within the preceding five years.



      (3)   The applicant has not, within the preceding one year,
been convicted of three or more moving traffic violations.



      (4)   The applicant has not, within the preceding one year,
been involved in more than one traffic accident in which applicant was at
fault.



   B.   Person of good moral character means any person who:



      (1)   Has such good reputation as will satisfy the licensing
authority that he or she will comply with this chapter and all other laws,
ordinances and regulations applicable to the performance of his or her duties
as a taxicab driver.



      (2)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense involving moral turpitude within the preceding ten
years.



      (3)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense which is a simple misdemeanor, other than those
listed in paragraph B.4, below, with in the preceding five years.



      (4)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense involving theft, assault, drugs, public exposure,
harassment or fraud within the preceding ten years, whether the offense is a
misdemeanor or a felony.



      (5)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of an offense which is a felony other than a forcible felony
within the preceding ten years.



      (6)   Has not been convicted of, pled guilty to or stipulated
to the facts of any forcible felony, including any felonious child
endangerment, assault, murder, sexual abuse, kidnapping, robbery, arson in
the first degree or burglary in the first degree, or any sexual motivated
crime.



   C.   Each applicant for a taxicab driver’s license must meet the
requirements of this subsection before a license may be issued.  The
applicant shall:



      (1)   Possess a current valid motor vehicle chauffeurs’
license, with the proper endorsement, issued by the state department of
transportation.



      (2)   Have a good driving record.



      (3)   Be a person of good moral character.



      (4)   Be at least 18 years of age.



      (5)   Not currently be on probation or parole.



4.   Prior to issuance of a license, a background investigation of the
applicant shall be conducted by the Police Department.



(Ord. 1796 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



134.04  LICENSE FEE.



The fee for a taxicab license is fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for the
first license to any one licensee and ten dollar ($10.00) per year for each
additional license to the same licensee.  The fee for taxicab license is
non-transferrable and shall not be refundable if vehicle is removed from
fleet within the license period.  The fee for a taxicab driver license will
be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for each taxicab driver.  The fee
for a taxicab driver license in non-refundable within the license period.



(Ord. 1796 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



134.05  LICENSE ISSUANCE.



If the City Clerk determines that the application for a license is in proper
form, that the fees therefor has been paid, and that all of the prescribed
conditions pursuant to Chapter 134.03 for the issuance of the license have
been met, the City Clerk shall issue the license immediately.



(Ord. 1796 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



134.06  LICENSE REFUSAL; APPEAL.



If the City Clerk refuses to issue a license, the reason therefor shall be
noted upon the application.  The applicant then shall have a right to a
hearing before the Council at its next regular meeting.  The Council may
reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the City clerk by a majority vote
of the whole number of the members of the Council.



(Ord. 1796 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



134.07  LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.



In no case shall a license issued pursuant to this chapter be transferable to
another person or be used for a purpose other than that for which it was
issued.



134.08  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.



The Council, after providing reasonable notice and hearing, may revoke any
license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:



1.   The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the application for
the license or in the conduct of business.



2.   The licensee has violated the provisions of this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.



3.   The licensee has conducted the business in a manner endangering the
public welfare, health, safety, or public order.



The notice provided for in this section shall be in writing and shall state
the time and place of the hearing and the reasons for the proposed
revocation.  The notice shall be served upon the licensee in the manner of
an original notice.



134.09  EFFECT OF REVOCATION.



Revocation of a license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license pursuant to this chapter for a period of one year from the date of
revocation.



134.10  DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND ID.



The licensee shall display, within each taxicab in full view of the
passenger, the license issued under the provisions of this chapter, along
with City-issued identification with the photograph visible inside the cab to
the passengers. 



134.11  LICENSEE’S FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.



The licensee shall file with the Clerk a certificate certifying that the
licensee has a policy of insurance or bond in effect which insures the
liability of the licensee to a limit, exclusive of interest and costs, of not
less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) because of bodily
injury to or death of one person in any one accident, and subject to a limit
of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) because of
bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident, and if
the accident has resulted in injury to or destruction of property, to a limit
of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) because of injury
to or destruction of property of others in any one accident.



134.12  (Repealed by Ordinance No. 1796 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



134.13  VEHICLE CONDITION.



1.   Prior to its use and operation, each vehicle shall be made to comply
with all applicable requirements of the State Motor Vehicle Code and other
State and City laws.



2.   Each vehicle operating under this chapter shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition, both interior and exterior.



3.   Each vehicle shall be equipped with an operable heater and air
conditioner of adequate capacity.



4.   Each vehicle exterior shall be maintained in good condition, with all
parts intact and properly painted.



5.   Each vehicle shall be in excellent mechanical condition, free from
all known defects which could cause inconvenience or hazard to any passenger.



6.   Each vehicle shall have properly inflated tires with a safe amount of
remaining tread.



134.14  PAINTING OF NAME REQUIRED.



Every taxicab licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
name of the licensee thereof plainly painted in letters at least one and
one-half inches in height in the center of the main panel of each rear or
front door of the vehicle, and shall be of a distinctive color scheme
different from that of the licensed taxicab of any other owner.



134.15  TAXIMETER REQUIRED.



1.   Every taxicab shall be equipped with a taximeter which shall comply
with all State and Federal requirements relating to type and accuracy.  For
the purposes of this section, a “taximeter” means an instrument or device
by which the charge for hire of a taxicab is mechanically calculated for
distance traveled and waiting time, and within which such charge shall be
indicated in terms of dollars and cents.



2.   In lieu of imposing a fare based upon time and mileage, a licensee
may impose a standard trip charge for transporting passengers for hire within
certain geographical boundaries, or for travel to specific designations,
provided that said licensee prominently displays such trip charges on the
dashboard or other area which is plainly visible to passengers.



CHAPTER 135
ALARM SYSTEMS



 



135.01  Definitions
 
135.10  Administrative Enforcement


135.02  Alarm Permits; Renewals, Administration
 
135.11  Suspension of Response


135.03  Grace Period; New Installations
 
135.12  Review and Appeals


135.04  Alarm User Responsibilities
 
135.13  Appeal Procedures


135.05  Alarm Business Duties and Responsibilities
 
135.14  Application After Denial or Revocation of Permit


135.06  Alarm Systems In Apartment Complexes
 
135.15  Reinstatement of Alarm Permit


135.07  Responsibility of the Police Department
 
135.16  False Alarm Education Program


135.08  Alarm System Performance Reviews
 
135.17  Confidentiality


135.09  Liabilities of the Police Department
 




 



135.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter:



1.   “Alarm” or “alarm system” means any mechanical or electrical
device that is used to detect an unauthorized entry into a building or other
facility, or to alert other persons of the occurrence of a commission of an
unlawful act against a person or within a building or other facility, and
that may be designed to emit an audible alarm or transmit a signal or message
when activated.



   A.   Alarms or alarm systems include but are not limited to silent,
panic, holdup, robbery, duress, burglary, check welfare, and proprietor
alarms.



   B.   Alarms or alarm systems do not include telephone call diverters
and systems that are designed to report environmental and other occurrences
and that are not designed to alert, or cause other persons to alert, public
safety personnel.



   C.   Alarms or alarm systems do not include alarms installed in a
vehicle unless said vehicle is permanently located at the alarm site.



2.   “Alarm administrator” means the designated representative
appointed by the Police Chief whose duties shall be to promulgate rules and
regulations for the implementation of the terms and conditions of this
chapter related to alarms.  The alarm administrator will administer, control
and review alarm applications, permits, alarm forms, alarm dispatch requests,
and will be part of the Alarm Review Board.



3.   “Alarm business” means the business, by an individual,
partnership, corporation or other authorized designated agents registered and
licensed to sell, lease, maintain, monitor, service, repair, alter, replace,
move, or install any alarm system in or on any building, structure, or
facility in the City.



4.   “Alarm business agent or employee” means any person who is
employed by an alarm business responsible for selling, leasing, maintaining,
monitoring, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving, installing any
alarm system in or on any building, structure, or facility in the City.



5.   “Alarm dispatch request” means a notification to the police by
the alarm business that an alarm, either manual or automatic, has been
activated at a particular alarm site.



6.   “Alarm form” means a form designated by the alarm administrator
for recording false alarms.  Said form shall record the following
information, but not be limited to only these questions:



   A.   Identification of the permit number for the alarm site.



   B.   Identification of the alarm site.



   C.   Arrival time at the alarm site and dispatched received time.



   D.   Date and time, weather conditions.



   E.   Area and/or or sub area involved.



   F.   Name of contact person on premises.



   G.   Identification of the responsible alarm business.



   H.   Indications that the alarm was caused by a criminal offense, an
attempted criminal offense, or if it was a false alarm dispatch.



7.   “Alarm permit” means a document issued by the alarm administrator
allowing an alarm business and/or user to place an alarm in service or
maintain an existing alarm at the specified alarm site.  A permit is valid
for one year from date of issue.



8.   “Alarm site” means any building or structure or portion thereof
protected by an alarm system.  In the case of two or more buildings or
structures or portions thereof on the same property under the same ownership
protected by alarm systems that are not connected to a single control system,
each building or structure or portion thereof shall be deemed to be separate
and distinct alarm sites.



9.   “Alarm user” or “user” means any person who leases, rents, or
purchases any monitored alarm system, device, or service from an alarm
business or who leases, rents, or purchases an audible alarm system or
device, or who contracts with an alarm business for alarm monitoring, repair
or maintenance services.



10.   “Apartment provided alarm” means an alarm that is installed in a
multifamily dwelling and the landlord handles the burglar alarm-monitoring
contract and/or fees.



11.   “Automatic voice dialer” means any electrical, electronic,
mechanical, or other device capable of being programmed to send a prerecorded
message, when activated, over a telephone line, radio, or other communication
system, to a law enforcement, public safety, or emergency service agency
requesting dispatch.



12.   “Communications center” means the public safety answering point
used to receive emergency and general information from the public to be
dispatched to police personnel.



13.   “Contact person” means the individual or individuals that will
be utilized as being responsible for contact to be made by the Police
Department when the need arises.  This person is capable of reaching the
alarm site within thirty minutes and has access to the site, the code to the
alarm or alarm system, and the authority to approve repairs to the alarm or
alarm system.



14.   “Conversion” means the transaction or process by which one alarm
business begins monitoring an alarm system previously monitored by another
alarm business.



15.   “Duress alarm” means a silent alarm signal generated by the
manual activation of a device intended to signal a crisis situation requiring
immediate police response.  A “one-plus duress alarm” is the manual
activation of a silent signal by entering at a keypad, a code that adds one
to the last digit of the normal arm/disarm code (normal code = 1234; one plus
duress code = 1235).



16.   “False alarm” means the activation of an alarm system when a
situation requiring police response does not actually exist.  Such
activation may be caused by malfunction or failure of the alarm equipment,
error, and/or negligence by the alarm user or said user’s agents or
employees, improper alarm installation, or error on the part of the alarm
business agent or employee.  Exceptions:  Alarms resulting from the
following conditions shall not be construed as false alarms:



   A.   Violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary
circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the alarm business or
alarm user, or



   B.   Tornado, causing structural damage to the protected alarm site,
or



   C.   Lightning bolt, causing physical damage to the protected alarm
site, or



   D.   Telephone line malfunction verified in writing to the alarm
administrator by at least a first line telephone company supervisor or by
municipal personnel on the scene of an alarm, or



   E.   Notifications to the communications center the alarm business
agent, employee, contact person, and/or an alarm user before a unit is
dispatched to investigate that the alarm has been verified and does not
require a response.



17.   “False alarm education program” means a public information
program to educate alarm system users on provisions of the false alarm
ordinance, the proper use and maintenance of their alarm systems, and the
knowledge on how to prevent false alarms.



18.   “Immediate family” means an ancestor or descendant by blood or
adoption; or sibling of the whole or half-blood or by adoption or stepchild
or stepparent, or aunt, uncle, nephew or niece of the whole or half-blood.



19.   “Keypad” means a device that allows control of an alarm system
by the manual entering of a coded sequence of numbers or letters.



20.   “Monitoring” means the process by which an alarm business
receives signals from alarm systems and relays an alarm dispatch request to
the Police Department for a response to the alarm site.



21.   “Takeover” means the transaction or process by which one alarm
user takes over control of an existing alarm system which was previously
controlled by another alarm user.  A takeover does not occur if the users
are immediate family members.



22.   “Secondary response” means the police receive an alarm dispatch
request but will not provide alarm response until after the alarm business
has provided its own alarm response to the alarm site and has determined
evidence of actual or attempted criminal activity.



23.   “Verify” means an attempt, by the alarm business, the alarm user
or his agents or employees to contact the alarm site by telephonic or other
electronic means, whether or not actual contact with an alarm user is made,
before requesting a police dispatch, in an attempt to avoid an unnecessary
alarm dispatch request.



24.   “Year” means three hundred sixty-five consecutive days.



135.02  ALARM PERMITS; RENEWALS, ADMINISTRATION.



1.   No alarm user shall operate or cause to be operated an alarm or alarm
system at its alarm site without a valid alarm permit.



2.   Alarm permits are required for each alarm site.



3.   Alarm permits are issued upon the receipt of a completed application
form and the set service fee unless the applicant has had an alarm permit for
the alarm site revoked or suspended and/or has unpaid fees.



4.   The annual fee shall reflect the administration cost.  No refund of
a registration or registration renewal will be made.



5.   An additional fee established by the alarm administrator shall be
assessed for an alarm system programmed with a duress, one-plus duress, or
holdup alarm.



6.   Alarm permits must be obtained within thirty calendar days of the
alarm system installation and/or takeover.  Alarm users who fail to register
within that time period may be charged a late registration penalty.



7.   All service fees owed by an applicant must be paid before a permit is
issued or renewed.



8.   Each alarm registration application form must include the following
information:



   A.   The name, complete address (including apartment/suite number),
and telephone numbers of the person who will be the registration holder and
be responsible for the proper maintenance and operation of the alarm system
and payment of fees assessed under this chapter;



   B.   The classification of the alarm site as either residential
(includes condominiums, town homes, mobile homes, etc.) commercial or
apartment;



   C.   For each alarm system located at the alarm site, the
classification of the alarm system (e.g., burglary, holdup, duress, or other)
for each purpose whether audible or silent;



   D.   Mailing address if different from the alarm site;



   E.   Any dangerous or special conditions present at the alarm site;



   F.   The name and telephone numbers of at least two individuals who
are able and have agreed to be contact persons that receive notification of
an alarm activation at any time; respond to the alarm site within thirty
minutes; and upon request can grant access to the alarm site and deactivate
the alarm system if such becomes necessary;



   G.   Type of business conducted at the alarm site;



   H.   Signed certification from the alarm user stating:



      (1)   The date of installation, conversion, or takeover of the
alarm system, whichever is applicable;



      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the alarm
business performing the alarm system installation, conversion, or alarm
system takeover and responsible for providing repair service to the alarm
system;



      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the
monitoring company if different from the alarm business that installed the
system;



      (4)   That a written set of operating instructions for the
alarm system, including the written guidelines on how to avoid false alarms,
have been left with the applicant;



      (5)   That the alarm business has trained the applicant in
proper use of the alarm system, including how to avoid false alarms;



      (6)   That law enforcement response may be based on factors
such as:  availability of police units, priority of calls, weather
conditions, traffic conditions, emergency conditions, staffing levels, etc.



9.   Alarm permits are valid for one year from the date of issuance and
must be renewed at which time a new permit will be issued.



10.   Alarm permits are non-transferable either to a new location or to a
new user.



11.   Any false statement of material fact made by an applicant for the
purpose of obtaining an alarm permit shall be sufficient cause for refusal to
issue a permit.



12.   An alarm user shall inform the alarm administrator of any change
that alters any of the information listed on the alarm permit registration
form within five business days of such change.



13.   After receiving one alarm call to an alarm site without an alarm
permit the alarm administrator will notify in writing both the alarm user and
the alarm business that a permit must be obtained within thirty days.  If a
second or subsequent alarm call is received by the communications center
after the thirty-day period and a permit has not been obtained, the alarm
user will be in violation of this chapter.  Until a permit is obtained, each
alarm thereafter will be considered a separate violation of this chapter and
will be subject to a citation and assessment of service fees as determined by
the alarm administrator and recorded in accordance with this chapter.



14.   Alarm businesses are required to maintain a copy of the current
alarm permit on behalf of the alarm user if they monitor the system for
alarms.  However, it is the responsibility of the alarm user to ensure that
a current permit is obtained.



15.   Alarm permits must be renewed in the month of expiration.  Renewals
are issued after the applicant has updated his information on the application
and a renewal fee paid.  Renewals fees are set by the Police Department.



16.   Renewals made more than thirty days after alarm permit expiration
will be considered a violation of this chapter and an alarm user will have to
re-apply for an alarm permit and be subject to a late fee.  Failure to renew
will be classified as use of a non-registered system and citations and
penalties shall be assessed without waiver.



17.   Only one permit per year may be issued per alarm site unless a
takeover occurs.



18.   Landlords of property, which have apartment-provided alarms are
required to notify the alarm business of takeovers.



19.   Alarm permits are not required for alarm users who have their alarms
responded to by non-law enforcement agencies.



135.03  GRACE PERIOD; NEW INSTALLATIONS.



1.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any new installation
or modification of alarm systems for the first thirty days following
completion of the installation or system modification.



2.   Users installing a new system shall be entitled to a grace period
during which false alarms generated by such systems shall be deemed non-false
alarms.  The grace period shall cease thirty days after installation of an
alarm system.



135.04  ALARM USER RESPONSIBILITIES.



1.   The alarm user will complete an application form that includes a list
for the user’s alarm business of at least two people that can serve as
contact persons.  The contact person will be responsible for responding to
the alarm location if the need arises.  Commercial users that employ less
than two persons or single-family dwellings where less than two adult
residents reside are only required to provide contact numbers for the actual
number of employees or adult residents.  The alarm user may be required to
respond to the scene of an alarm.



2.   The alarm user will ensure that any employee or agent that will be
given the responsibility of the operation of activating or deactivating the
alarm system is properly trained to do so.



3.   The alarm user will be liable and responsible for false alarms at the
alarm site.



4.   The alarm user will not manually activate an alarm system for any
other reason other than an occurrence of an event that the alarm system was
intended to report.



5.   An alarm user shall not use automatic voice dialers.



6.   The alarm user will be responsible for ensuring that false alarms are
not transmitted to the communications center.



7.   The alarm user will provide the alarm administrator with signed
certification stating the date of the alarm installation, conversion, or
takeover, the name and telephone number of the alarm business who performed
the installation, conversion, or takeover, the name and telephone number of
the alarm business who will provide repair service to the system and the name
and telephone number of the alarm business who will be monitoring the alarm
system.  Any false statement made by an applicant will be sufficient cause
for the alarm administrator to refuse to issue a permit.



8.   The alarm user will make sure the alarm site’s address is properly
located and legible and can be seen from the street.



9.   The alarm user will make sure the alarm business who installed,
monitors, and services the alarm system will set all available alarms with a
device to automatically reset within a fifteen-minute time period.



10.   The alarm user is responsible for having the alarm system checked on
a regular basis to ensure that it is functioning properly.



11.   The alarm user will be required to have a properly licensed alarm
business inspect the alarm system after three false alarm dispatches in a
one-year period.  After five false alarm dispatches, the alarm user must
have a reputable alarm business modify the alarm system to be more false
alarm resistant or provide additional training for the alarm user.



12.   The written operating instructions for each alarm system must be
maintained at each alarm site.



135.05  ALARM BUSINESS DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.



1.   Any alarm company operating within the jurisdiction of the City shall
be registered and licensed with the Clerk prior to conducting business within
the jurisdiction of the City.



2.   Alarm installation licenses shall be issued annually on a calendar
year basis.  All applications for licenses shall be filed with the Clerk on
forms provided for that purpose.



3.   Alarm businesses shall not program alarm systems so that they are
capable of sending one plus duress alarms.  Alarm businesses may continue to
report one plus duress alarms received from alarm systems programmed with one
plus duress prior to the enactment of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.  However, when a takeover or conversion occurs or if an alarm user
requests an alarm system inspection or modifications pursuant to this
chapter, an alarm business must remove one plus duress alarm capability from
such alarm systems.



4.   Each alarm business will employ agents or employees that possess the
needed skills and abilities to perform the duties required.  These duties
are to include the proper instruction to allow the alarm user to use the
alarm system correctly, and obtain service for the alarm at any time.



5.   After the completion of an alarm system installation an alarm
business employee or agent shall review with the alarm user the false alarm
prevention checklist or an equivalent approved by the alarm administrator and
the customer false alarm prevention checklist.  The alarm business shall
ensure that the alarm technician and the alarm user sign both forms.  Copies
of the forms shall be sent to the alarm administrator within seven business
days after reviewing.



6.   Each alarm business will maintain a current list of at least two
people that can be notified for the alarm user in the event of alarm
activation except as noted in this chapter.  Each alarm business will offer
a training period in which they train the alarm user on proper use of the
alarm system.



7.   Alarm businesses must ensure that all alarm users of alarm systems
equipped with a duress, holdup, or one plus duress alarm are given adequate
training as to the proper use of the duress or holdup alarms.



8.   Alarm businesses are prohibited from using an automatic telephone
dialing device or digital alarm communicator to notify the communications
center of an alarm.  They are required to notify the communications center
via telephone numbers specified by the alarm administrator.  The alarm
business will attempt to verify every alarm signal, except a holdup alarm
activation or a duress alarm before requesting a police response to an alarm
signal.



9.   Each alarm business will provide the communications center with the
following information when reporting an alarm:



   A.   A local call or toll-free call back number for the alarm
monitoring company;



   B.   An operator name and/or number;



   C.   The alarm permit number, and type of alarm; and



   D.   Location of alarm (street address and alarm indication, e.g.,
front door).



10.   Alarm businesses will provide the communications center with the
following information when reporting an alarm cancellation:



   A.   Identification of the permit number for the alarm site;



   B.   Identification of the alarm site;



   C.   Identification of the alarm business;



   D.   Date and time that the alarm dispatch request was received;



   E.   Cause of alarm, if known; and



   F.   Why they are canceling.



11.   If cancellation occurs prior to law enforcement arriving at the
scene, this is not a false alarm for the purpose of fees, and no service fee
will be issued.



12.   After an alarm dispatch request, alarm businesses are required to
promptly advise the law enforcement agency if the alarm user or contact
person is on the way to the alarm site.



13.   The alarm business must attempt to contact the alarm user or contact
person within twenty-four hours via mail, fax, telephone, or other electronic
means when an alarm dispatch request is made and the contact person or alarm
user cannot be reached immediately.



14.   Alarm businesses are prohibited from selling or otherwise
transferring alarm user maintenance or monitoring contracts or agreements to
another alarm business without first ensuring the purchasing and/or being
aware that the alarm business has obtained the required permit and otherwise
meets the requirements of this chapter.



15.   The alarm business will set all available alarms with a device to
automatically reset within a fifteen-minute time period.



16.   Alarm businesses, which perform monitoring services, must maintain
for a period of at least one year following the request for police dispatch
to an alarm site, any records relating to the dispatch.  Records must
include the name, address and phone number of the alarm user, the alarm
system zones or points activated, the time of request for police dispatch and
evidence that an attempt to verify was made to the alarm site prior to the
request for police dispatch.  The alarm administrator may request copies of
such records for individually named alarm users.



135.06  ALARM SYSTEMS IN APARTMENT COMPLEXES.



1.   Tenants who install monitored alarm systems in an apartment complex
single unit are considered an alarm user as defined in this chapter and all
of the provisions in this chapter will apply to that individual.



2.   Owners or property managers of apartment complexes, who provide an
alarm system in individual units as an amenity, shall obtain an alarm permit
from the alarm administrator.  The property manager or owner is responsible
for all fees, services, permit renewals, and false alarm dispatches for alarm
systems in residential units.



3.   Owners or property managers of apartment complexes shall be
responsible for obtaining separate alarm permits for any alarm system
operating in nonresidential areas of the complex (e.g., storage and equipment
areas, pool, offices, and garages).



135.07  RESPONSIBILITY OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.



1.   The alarm administrator will make a copy of the ordinance codified in
this chapter and/or an ordinance summary sheet available to each alarm user
when said user registers for a permit.



2.   If the alarm administrator denies the issuance or renewal of a
permit, or suspends or revokes a permit, a written notice of this action and
a statement of the right to an appeal will be sent by certified mail to both
the applicant or alarm user and the alarm business.



3.   The communications center will properly record all alarm calls that
come into the communications center and dispatch units to investigate the
alarm call.



4.   The communications center will have designated non-911 telephone
lines available to the monitoring alarm businesses to receive calls or
reports of alarm activation.  Those lines will ring at the communications
center and be monitored twenty-four hours a day.



5.   The communications center will maintain a record of all alarm calls
and the nature of the alarms including the number of false alarms, and
accurate alarm dispositions.



6.   The police unit will respond to the location of the alarm in a timely
manner and investigate to determine if a crime has been committed, including
robbery, burglary, attempted robbery or burglary, trespassing, etc. and
properly note such findings on the alarm form.



7.   If there are no signs that a crime has been committed the police unit
will attempt to determine if the location of the alarm is secure and make the
proper notification on the alarm form.



8.   The police unit will make a determination on the scene of the alarm
to determine if the alarm was a false alarm and properly note that on the
alarm form and notify the communication center of the nature of the alarm
when they leave the alarm site.



9.   The police unit may or may not request that the alarm user respond to
the scene of the alarm.



10.   The police unit upon determining the alarm to be false will leave
written notice at the alarm site that the Ankeny Police Department has
responded to a false alarm dispatch.  Copies of this notice will be placed
in the case jacket and also given to the alarm administrator.  The written
notice shall include the following:



   A.   The date and time of law enforcement response to the false
alarm;



   B.   The identification number of the responding law enforcement
officer; and



   C.   A statement urging the alarm user to ensure that the alarm
system is properly operated, inspected, and serviced in order to avoid false
alarms and resulting service fees.



11.   After three such false alarms, the alarm administrator will have the
responsibility to notify the alarm user by registered mail that there have
been three false alarms at said user’s alarm site and in the event that
another false alarm occurs after delivery of notification, administrative
fees as prescribed in Section 135.10 will be imposed.



12.   The Police Department shall provide two false alarm education
programs per calendar year, as needed.  Each program shall inform alarm
system users about alarm systems, false alarms, causes and impacts of false
alarms, and how to reduce and eliminate false alarms.



135.08  ALARM SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REVIEWS.



If the alarm administrator determines that there is reason to believe that an
alarm system is not being utilized or maintained in a manner that ensures
proper operation and suppresses false alarms, the alarm administrator may
request a conference with the alarm user.  The alarm business responsible
for the repair of said alarm system may be required to attend to review the
circumstances of each false alarm.



135.09  LIABILITIES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.



The City assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for alarm systems
installed or maintained by private individuals or privately operated alarm
businesses, or for the quality of installation, maintenance, monitoring, type
of equipment used or for the interruption of services being provided by said
alarm businesses to the alarm users.



135.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.



1.   The number of false alarms allowed at an alarm site is enforced by
the Ankeny Police Department.



2.   The alarm administrator will issue annual alarm permits for a service
fee.



3.   An additional fee shall be assessed for an alarm system programmed
with a duress, one-plus duress, or holdup alarm.



4.   Alarm users who fail to register within thirty days of an alarm
installation will be charged a late registration penalty.



5.   Alarm permits must be renewed in the month of expiration and will
require a renewal fee.



6.   Renewals made more than thirty days after alarm permit expiration
will be considered a violation of this chapter and an alarm user will be
subject to a late penalty.



7.   The alarm user shall be subject to service fees, warnings, and
suspension or revocation of registration depending on the number of false
alarms emitted from an alarm system within a twelve-month period from the
permit date or its renewal based upon the following:



   A.   Any alarm user who receives one to three false alarms on a
single alarm permit will receive a written notice from the alarm
administrator.



   B.   Any alarm user who receives in excess of three false alarms on
a single alarm permit will receive a written notice and an administrative
service fee as prescribed below.



   C.   There will be a service fee for the fourth false alarm within a
consecutive 365-day period.  The alarm administrator shall waive the fee
upon successful completion of a false alarm education program sanctioned by
the Police Department.



   D.   There will be a service fee and suspension of the alarm permit
for the fifth false alarm within a consecutive 365-day period.



   E.   There will be a service fee for the sixth and subsequent false
alarms that occur within a consecutive 365-day period.



The alarm user will receive a written warning from the alarm administrator
for each infraction listed above.



8.   Alarm businesses shall be assessed a fee if the officer responding to
the false alarm determines that an on-site employee of the alarm business
directly caused the false alarm.  In this situation, the false alarm will
not be counted against the alarm user.



9.   The alarm business shall be charged a fee if the alarm administrator
determines that an alarm business employee knowingly made a false statement
concerning the inspection of an alarm site or the performance of an alarm
system.



10.   The alarm business which monitors the alarm system shall be charged
a fee for each failure to verify alarm system signals before contacting the
law enforcement agency as specified in this chapter.



11.   The alarm permit will be revoked if there has been a previous
suspension and two additional false alarm responses within the same permit
year.



12.   An alarm permit that is revoked by the alarm administrator shall not
be renewed or reinstated unless the alarm administrator is satisfied and has
receipt of acceptable evidence that the cause has been addressed and
appropriate corrective action has been taken as outlined in this chapter.



13.   While the permit is revoked, the police shall only provide secondary
response to that alarm site.



14.   Anyone operating a non-permitted alarm system (i.e., revoked,
suspended or never acquired) will be subject to a police citation and
assessment for each false alarm dispatch; in addition, the user must apply
for a permit within ten days.  The alarm administrator may waive this
additional assessment for a non-permitted system if the alarm user, after
such violation, applies for a permit and registers to participate in a false
alarm education program.



15.   Each alarm user and/or alarm owner shall pay a fee to attend the
false alarm education program.



16.   An alarm user who operates an alarm system during the period in
which said user’s alarm permit is suspended or revoked can be given a
police citation for the offense.



17.   If the alarm administrator assesses a fee or denies the issuance,
renewal or reinstatement of an alarm permit, the alarm administrator shall
send written notice of the action and a statement of the right to an appeal
to either the affected applicant, or alarm user, and alarm business and/or
alarm monitoring business.



18.   The alarm user may request to appeal any false alarm and service fee
by sending a written explanation for the appeal and an appeal fee.



19.   A person commits an offense if said person violates by commission or
omission any provision of this chapter that imposes upon such person a duty
or responsibility and is subject to a fine.



20.   The amount of all fees, assessments, penalties, and fines
established by this chapter shall be set by resolution of the Council, after
recommendation by the alarm administrator.



135.11  SUSPENSION OF RESPONSE.



1.   The alarm administrator may suspend alarm response if it is
determined that:



   A.   The alarm user has five or more false alarms within a
consecutive 365-day period; or



   B.   There is a false statement of a material fact in the
application for a permit; or



   C.   The alarm user has failed to make a timely payment of a service
fee or registration fee.



   D.   The alarm user has failed to submit a certification from an
alarm business that complies with the requirements of this chapter stating
that the alarm system has been inspected and repaired (if necessary) by the
alarm business.



2.   An alarm user commits an offense if he or she operates an alarm
system during the period in which the alarm permit is revoked and is subject
to enforcement and penalties.



3.   An alarm business that monitors the alarm system commits an offense
if it continues alarm dispatch requests to an alarm site after notification
by the alarm administrator that the registration has been revoked and is
subject to enforcement penalties.



4.   The Police Department will provide secondary response to an alarm
dispatch request at an alarm site for which the alarm permit has been revoked
until after the alarm business has provided its own alarm response to the
alarm site and has determined evidence of actual or attempted criminal
activity.



135.12  REVIEW AND APPEALS.



Any person aggrieved by any decision with respect to either the denial of an
application for a permit, or renewal, or the suspension or revocation of a
license, which is subject to this chapter, shall be entitled to the review
and appeal procedures.



135.13  APPEAL PROCEDURES.



1.   An appeal process is available to every alarm user who believes that
a false alarm has been misclassified.  The alarm user must file a request
for the same with the alarm administrator within twenty days of receipt of
the written notice and invoice.  An alarm business may submit the request
for review on behalf of an alarm user.  The request to appeal any false
alarm fees must be accompanied by a written explanation for the appeal and an
appeal fee.



2.   The filing of the appeal request stays the assessment of the false
alarm service fee until the alarm administrator and Police Chief make a final
decision.



3.   The alarm administrator may adjust the count of false alarms based on:



   A.   Evidence that the false alarm was caused by an act of God
(violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm business or alarm user);



   B.   Evidence that a false alarm was caused by action of the
telephone company, verified in writing to the alarm administrator by at least
a first line telephone company supervisor or by municipal personnel on the
scene of an alarm;



   C.   Evidence that a power outage lasting longer than four hours
caused a false alarm; or



   D.   Evidence that the alarm dispatch request was not a false alarm.



4.   The alarm administrator shall schedule the matter for review with the
Police Chief and if it is determined that the alarm was erroneously deemed a
“false alarm” or was activated because of an emergency or by
circumstances in which the false alarm was not avoidable by the use of due
care, the alarm administrator may waive the false alarm fee.  If this
decision is reached, the alarm administrator shall refund the appeal fee to
the alarm user.



5.   In determining the number of false alarms, multiple alarms occurring
in any 24-hour period shall be counted as one false alarm to allow the alarm
user time to take corrective action unless the alarm user directly causes the
false alarms.



6.   If the alarm administrator and the Police Chief determine that the
alarm was improperly installed or maintained, the alarm was user error, or
that the alarm equipment is defective, the false alarm fee shall not be
waived.



7.   The findings and decisions of the alarm administrative staff are
final and shall be in writing and filed with the office of the Police
Chief.  No more than two false alarm fees per calendar year at the same
alarm site shall be waived.



8.   With respect to fines of an alarm business and/or monitoring company
the alarm administrator may take into consideration whether the alarm
business had engaged in a consistent pattern of violations.



135.14  APPLICATION AFTER DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.



No alarm user may apply for an alarm permit required under this chapter
within one year after the denial of any such permit to such applicant, or
after the non-renewal or revocation of any such permit, unless the cause of
such denial, revocation, or non-renewal has been, to the satisfaction of the
alarm administrator, removed within such time.  This section shall be
inapplicable to denials of applications or renewal when the reason for denial
was for an administrative, technical, or otherwise non-material reason. 
While the permit is revoked, the police shall only provide secondary response
to that alarm site.



135.15  REINSTATEMENT OF ALARM PERMIT.



The alarm administrator may reinstate a suspended permit upon receipt of
acceptable evidence that the cause has been addressed and appropriate
corrective action has been taken.  The alarm administrator may require a
certification from an alarm business, which complies with the requirements of
this chapter, stating that the alarm system has been inspected and repaired
(if necessary) by the alarm business.  In addition, the alarm administrator
may require one or more of the following as a condition to reinstatement:



1.   Proof that an employee of the alarm business caused the false alarm.



2.   A certificate that the alarm user has successfully completed the
false alarm awareness class as provided in this chapter.



3.   A written statement from an independent inspector designated by the
alarm administrator that the alarm system has been inspected and is in good
working order.



Alarm permits are reinstated upon the receipt of a completed application
form, the above requirements, the set new-permit fee, and all unpaid false
alarm fees.  If the alarm permit is reinstated pursuant to this section, the
alarm administrator may revoke the alarm permit if it is determined that one
subsequent false alarm dispatch occurs within sixty days after the
reinstatement date.



135.16  FALSE ALARM EDUCATION PROGRAM.



1.   The Police Department shall provide an educational program for the
prevention of false alarms as needed.  The Police Department shall allow an
alarm user to attend any false alarm education program for the purposes
provided in this section.  The Police Department shall collect the program
fee before or at the time of a person’s attendance in the program.



2.   If an alarm user or owner successfully completes the false alarm
education program, the Police Department shall issue the person a
certificate.  The certificate may be used to satisfy the requirements of
this chapter and be used in lieu of payment of one service fee assessment
imposed pursuant to that section, provided that the certificate is submitted
with a timely appeal of the initial assessment of false alarm service fees
and is submitted within one year of its issuance.



3.   An alarm user or alarm owner who attends a false alarm education
program provided by the Police Department is not eligible to attend a false
alarm prevention program again within twelve months after the day on which
the person last attended the program unless such attendance is necessary to
satisfy the requirements of this chapter.



135.17  CONFIDENTIALITY.



Information contained in the registration application and all applications
for appeals shall be held in confidence by all employees and representatives
of the City, including any third-party administrator or employees of a
third-party administrator with access to such information.



CHAPTER 136
LICENSING OF MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS




(CHAPTER 136 REPEALED BY ORDINANCE NO. 1774 - OCT. 13 SUPP.)




CHAPTER 137
LICENSING OF PLUMBERS




(CHAPTER 137 REPEALED BY ORDINANCE NO. 1774 - OCT. 13 SUPP.)




CHAPTER 138
LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS




(CHAPTER 138 REPEALED BY ORDINANCE NO. 1774 - OCT. 13 SUPP.)




CHAPTER 139
MASSAGE THERAPISTS



 

139.01  Purpose
 
139.04  Display of License


139.02  Definitions
 
139.05  Penalties


139.03  State License Required
 
 



 



139.01  PURPOSE.



The State of Iowa licenses massage therapists under the provisions of Iowa
Code Chapter 152C. State licensed massage therapists and businesses offering
massage therapy services perform an important service in addressing the
health and well-being of residents. Unfortunately, there are businesses that
advertise they provide massage therapy and/or other therapeutic services, but
engage in various illegal activities, which may include prostitution and/or
human trafficking. This article is not intended to discourage legitimate,
licensed massage therapists or massage therapy businesses from providing
their services. The purpose of this ordinance is to identify and address
businesses that engage in the practice of massage therapy without valid
licenses and/or are involved in illegal activities, which may include
prostitution and/or human trafficking. Businesses providing massage therapy,
but also conducting various types of illegal activity, are harmful to the
health, safety, and welfare of the city and negatively impact the massage
therapy profession.



139.02    DEFINITIONS. 



For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases have the
meanings herein set forth, unless it is apparent from the context that a
different meaning is intended.



1.   "Massage therapist" means a person licensed under Iowa Code Chapter
152C to practice the health care service of the healing art of massage
therapy.



2.   "Massage therapy business" means any business or place of business,
including mobile, temporary, and transient businesses, wherein, or on whose
behalf, any of the treatments, techniques, or methods of treatment referred
to as "massage therapy" are administered, practiced, used, given, advertised
or applied.



139.03    STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.



The practice of massage therapy, as defined in Iowa Code Chapter 152C, is
prohibited by unlicensed individuals. It is unlawful for a person to engage
in or offer to engage in the practice of massage therapy, or use in
connection with the person's name, the initials "L.M.T." or the words
"licensed massage therapist", "masseur", "masseuse", or any other word or
title that implies or represents that the person practices massage therapy,
unless the person possesses a license issued under the provisions of Iowa
Code Section 152C.3.



139.04    DISPLAY OF LICENSE.



Each massage therapist shall keep his/her license in possession at all times
while doing business in the city and shall, upon request of a prospective
customer or city official, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with
all requirements of this article.



139.05    PENALTIES.



1.    A violation under this article is declared to be a municipal
infraction in addition to a misdemeanor and any person, or in connection with
one or more persons or as principle, agent, or accessory found violating any
provision of this article, shall be subject to the general penalty provisions
of the Ankeny Municipal Code, Chapter 4 to include both criminal and/or civil
penalties.



2.   The chief of police, or designee, shall place in a highly noticeable
location a placard stating Unsafe to Enter; Unlicensed Massage Therapy Must
Cease and is subject to criminal and/or civil penalty per Ankeny Municipal
Code, Chapter 4. This notice shall remain posted until a valid state license
is obtained or other legal use has been established.



3.   No person shall remove the placard posted pursuant to subsection (b)
of this section without approval of the chief of police or designee.



4.   No person, or in connection with one or more persons or as principle,
agent, or accessory shall continue to offer "massage therapy" services after
a massage therapy business has been placarded as unsafe for entry unless the
chief of police or designee has approved removal of the placard.



(Chapter 139 - Ord. 1985 - Nov. 19 Supp.)



CHAPTER 140
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES



 



140.01  Purpose and Intent
 
140.13  Nonconforming Uses


140.02  Definitions
 
140.14  Additional Regulations for Adult Motels


140.03  Classification and Standards of Conduct and Operation
 
140.15  Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit Films or
Videos


140.04  Permit Required
 
140.16  Exterior Portions of Sexually Oriented Businesses


140.05  Issuance of Permit
 
140.17  Signage


140.06  Fees
 
140.18  Persons Younger Than Eighteen Prohibited


140.07  Inspection
 
140.19  Massages or Baths Administered by Person of Opposite Sex


140.08  Expiration of Permit
 
140.20  Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited


140.09  Suspension
 
140.21  Notices


140.10  Revocation
 
140.22  Injunction


140.11  Transfer of Permit
 
140.23  Exemptions


140.12  Location Restrictions
 




 



140.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.



It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
and related activities to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the City, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the City.  The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials.  Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.  Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this ordinance to condone or legitimize the distribution
of obscene materials.



140.02  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.



1.   “Adult arcade” means any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.



2.   “Adult bookstore” or “adult video store” means a commercial
establishment that, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for
sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:



   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or



   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.



A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store.  Such other
business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments
from being categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store so long as
one of its principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.  A principal business
purpose need not be a primary use of an establishment, so long as it is a
significant use based upon the visible inventory or commercial activity of
the establishment.



3.   “Adult cabaret” means a commercial establishment that regularly
features:



   A.   Persons who appear in a state of semi-nudity; or



   B.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or



   C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or



   D.   Persons who engage in lewd, lascivious, or erotic dancing or
performances that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an
audience or customers.



4.   “Adult motel” means a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment that:



   A.   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of
consideration and provides patrons with closed-circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
has a sign visible from the public right-of-way that advertises the
availability of these adult types of photographic reproductions; or



   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than twenty-four (24) hours; or



   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the
room for a period of time that is less than twenty-four (24) hours.



5.   “Adult motion picture theater” means a commercial establishment
where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.



6.   “Adult theater” means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or
similar commercial establishment that regularly features persons who appear
in a state of nudity or live performances that are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.



7.   “Director” means the Police Chief and such employees of the
police department as the Police Chief may designate to perform the duties of
the Director under this chapter.



8.   “Escort” means a person who, for consideration, agrees or offers
to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or
offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.



9.   “Escort agency” means a person or business association who
furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its
primary business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.



10.   “Establishment” means and includes any of the following:



   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business
as a new business;



   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;



   C.   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or



   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.



11.   “Licensed day-care center” means a facility licensed by the
State, whether situated within the City or not, that provides care, training,
education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than twelve (12)
children under fourteen (14) years of age, where such children are not
related by blood, marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the
facility, of less than twenty-four (24) hours a day, regardless of whether or
not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the services it
offers.



12.   “Permittee” means a person in whose name a permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual listed
as an applicant on the application for a permit.



13.   “Nude model studio” means any place where a person who appears
in a state of nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.



14.   “Nudity” or “state of nudity” means the appearance of a
human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals, or female breast
without a fully opaque, complete covering of the breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.



15.   “Semi-nude” means a state of dress in which clothing covers no
more than the human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals, or
female breast without a fully opaque, complete covering of the breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola, or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.



16.   “Sexual encounter center” means a business or commercial
enterprise that, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration:



   A.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or



   B.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of
the same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or is
semi-nude.



17.   “Sexually oriented business” means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore or adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual
encounter center.



18.   “Specified anatomical areas” means the male genitals in a state
of sexual arousal and/or the vulva or more intimate parts of the female
genitals.



19.   “Specified sexual activities” means and includes any of the
following:



   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;



   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;



   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or



   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C above.



20.   “Substantial enlargement” of a sexually oriented business means
the increase in floor areas occupied by the business by more than twenty-five
(25%) from the original premises.



21.   “Transfer of ownership or control” of a sexually oriented
business means and includes any of the following:



   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;



   B.   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or



   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal
device that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.



140.03  CLASSIFICATION AND STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND OPERATION.



1.   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:



   A.   Adult arcades;



   B.   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;



   C.   Adult cabarets;



   D.   Adult motels;



   E.   Adult motion picture theaters;



   F.   Adult theaters;



   G.   Escort agencies;



   H.   Nude model studios; and



   I.   Sexual encounter centers.



2.   The following standards of conduct must be adhered to by entertainers
and employees of any sexually oriented business while on the premises:



   A.   No employee or entertainer shall be unclothed or in such less
than opaque and complete attire, costume or clothing so as to expose to view
any specified anatomical area, except when such entertainer or employee is
separated from any and all customers by a window or other partition which is
maintained free of holes or other structural openings which would permit
physical contact between such entertainer and employee and any customer
within the viewing area and customers are not permitted within four (4) feet
of the window or other partition.  However, a single opening in such window
or partition, allowing for payment for entertainment, by a customer to the
entertainer, shall be permitted and at this point customers are permitted
within two (2) feet of the window or other partition to allow customers to
reach the opening.



   B.   No employee or entertainer shall perform:



      (1)   Any specified sexual activities; or



      (2)   The displaying of any specified anatomical area, except
as provided for in paragraph A of this subsection.



   C.   No employee or entertainer who is either not separated from any
and all customers as provided in paragraph A of this subsection, or in an
area of the premises not open to customers shall be unclothed or in less than
opaque and complete attire, costume or clothing as described in paragraph A
of this subsection.



   D.   No employee or entertainer shall knowingly touch any specified
anatomical area of another person, or knowingly permit another person to
touch any specified anatomical area of such employee or entertainer; or no
employee or entertainer shall knowingly fondle or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, whether such area is clothed, unclothed,
covered or exposed, or knowingly permit another person to fondle or caress
any specified anatomical area of such employee or entertainer, whether such
area is clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed.



   E.   No entertainer shall be visible from any public place during
the hours of his or her employment, or apparent hours of his or her
employment, while such entertainer is unclothed or in such attire, costume or
clothing to expose to view any specified anatomical area or while performing
any entertainment, either while clothed or unclothed.



   F.   No entertainer shall solicit, demand, or receive any payment or
gratuity from any customer for any act prohibited by this chapter.



   G.   No entertainer shall receive any payment or gratuity from any
customer, except through an opening in the window or partition separating
such entertainer from a customer, as described in paragraph A of this
subsection.



3.   At any sexually oriented business, the following are required:



   A.   A sign, on which upper-case letters are at least two (2) inches
high and lower-case letters are at least one (1) inch high, shall be
conspicuously displayed in the common area at the principal entrance and
shall read as follows:



 


THIS ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS




IS REGULATED BY THE CITY OF ANKENY, IOWA.




ENTERTAINERS ARE:



1.   Not permitted to engage in any type of sexual conduct on the premises
or in prostitution;


2.   Not permitted to be unclothed or in such less than opaque and
complete attire, costume or clothing so as to expose to view any portion of
the breasts below the top of the areola, or any portion of the pubic region,
buttocks and/or genitals, except when separated from customers by the window
or partition between the entertainer and customers.


3.   Not permitted to receive any payment or gratuity from any customer,
except through an opening in the window or partition separating such
entertainer from a customer.



 



   B.   Neither entertainment nor any photograph, drawing, sketch or
other pictorial or graphic representation thereof displaying any specified
anatomical area shall be visible from a public place.



   C.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as
measured at the floor level, and such illumination must be maintained at all
times that any customer is present in or on the premises.



140.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.



1.   It is unlawful for a person to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid permit issued by the City Council.



2.   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
City.  The application must be accompanied by a sketch or a diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business.  The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus
six inches.



3.   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Health Department, Fire Department, Building Official, and
Zoning Official.



4.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he must sign the application for a permit as applicant.  If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest
in the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant.  If a
corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the
entity that wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a ten
percent (10%) or greater interest in the corporation must sign the
application for a permit as applicant.



5.   The fact that a person possesses other types of State or City permits
and/or licenses does not exempt said person from the requirement of obtaining
a sexually oriented business permit.



6.   Applications for a permit, whether original or renewal, must be made
to the Police Chief by the intended operator of the enterprise. 
Applications must be submitted by hand delivery to the office of the Police
Chief during regular working hours.  Application forms shall be supplied by
the Police Chief.  The intended operator shall be required to give the
following information on the application form:



   A.   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) and
Iowa driver’s license number of the intended operator;



   B.   The name and street address (and mailing address if different)
of the owner;



   C.   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided;



   D.   The telephone number of the establishment;



   E.   The address and legal description of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be located;



   F.   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the
owner acquiring the establishment began operations as a sexually oriented
business at the location for which the permit is sought; and



   G.   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected start-up
date (which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of
the permit).  If the expected start-up date is to be more than 10 days
following the date of issuance of the permit, then a detailed explanation of
the construction, repair or remodeling work or other cause of the expected
delay and a statement of the owner’s time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same.



   H.   Statement that the applicant has not been convicted of a felony
or released from confinement for conviction of a felony, whichever event is
later, within five years immediately preceding the application, or has not
been convicted of a misdemeanor or released from confinement for conviction
of a misdemeanor, whichever event is later, within two years immediately
preceding the application, where such felony or misdemeanor involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, sexual abuse of a child or pornography and related
offenses, as defined in the Code of Iowa, Federal law, or the statutes of any
other state, or controlled substance or illegal drugs or narcotics offenses,
as defined in the Code of Iowa, Federal law or the statutes of any other
state, or has not been convicted of a municipal ordinance violation or
released from confinement for conviction of a municipal ordinance violation,
whichever event is later, within two years immediately preceding the
application, where such municipal ordinance violation involved indecent
exposure, prostitution or the possession or sale of controlled substances or
illegal drugs or narcotics.



7.   The application shall be accompanied by the following:



   A.   Payment of the application fee in full.



   B.   If the establishment is an Iowa corporation, a certified copy
of the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto.



   C.   If the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy
of the certificate of authority to transact business in the State, together
with all amendments thereto.



   D.   If the establishment is a partnership formed under the laws of
the State, a certified copy of the certificate of partnership, together with
all amendments thereto.



   E.   If the establishment is a foreign partnership, a certified copy
of the certificate of partnership and the qualification documents, together
with all amendments thereto.



   F.   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on
which the establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the
recorded deed.



   G.   If the persons identified as the fee owners of the tract of
land in item F are not also the owners of the establishment, then the lease,
purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract or other
document evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed
owners of the establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of the
tract or portion thereof that is to be used for the establishment for the
purpose of the operation of the establishment.



   H.   Any of items B through G above shall not be required for a
renewal application if the applicant states that the documents previously
furnished the Director with the original application or previous renewals
thereof remain correct and current.



8.   The application shall contain a statement under oath that:



   A.   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information
contained in the application and that the information contained therein and
furnished therewith is true and correct; and



   B.   The applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.



9.   A separate application and permit shall be required for each sexually
oriented business.



140.05  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.



1.   The Police Chief shall approve the issuance of a permit to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless the Police
Chief finds one or more of the following to be true:



   A.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.



   B.   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in the
payment to the City of taxes, fines or penalties assessed against said
applicant or spouse or imposed in relation to a sexually oriented business.



   C.   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the permit or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form.



   D.   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the City to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose permit to
operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months.



   E.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, Building
Official and Zoning Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances.



   F.   The permit fee required by this chapter has not been paid.



   G.   An application of the proposed establishment is in violation of
or is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.



2.   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of the
sexually oriented business.  The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business that it may
be easily read at any time.



3.   The Health Department, Fire Department, Building Official, and Zoning
Official shall complete their certification that the premises is in
compliance or not in compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application
by the Police Chief.  The certification shall be promptly presented to the
Police Chief.



4.   In the event that the Police Chief determines that an applicant is
not eligible for a permit, the applicant shall be given notice in writing of
the reasons for the denial within 45 days after the receipt of the
application by the Police Chief, provided that the applicant may request, in
writing, that such period be extended for an additional period of not more
than 10 days at any time before the notice is issued in order to make
modifications necessary to comply with this chapter.



5.   An applicant may appeal the decision of the Police Chief regarding a
denial to the Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the Clerk
within 15 days after the applicant is given notice of the Police Chief’s
decision.  The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a memorandum or
other writing setting out fully the grounds for such appeal and all arguments
in support thereof.  The Police Chief may submit a memorandum in response to
the memorandum filed by the applicant on appeal to the Council.  After
reviewing such memoranda, as well as the Police Chief’s written decision,
if any, and exhibits submitted to the Police Chief, the Council shall vote
either to uphold or overrule the Police Chief’s decision.  Such vote shall
be taken within 21 calendar days after the date on which the Clerk receives
the notice of appeal.  However, all parties shall be required to comply with
the Police Chief’s decision during the pendency of the appeal.



6.   The Police Chief shall conduct a background investigation of all
applicants including a check of the applicants’ background by the
Department of Criminal Investigation.



140.06  FEES.



The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is five hundred
dollars ($500.00).  This fee is to be used to pay for the cost of the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.



140.07  INSPECTION.



An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department or other City or State department or agencies to inspect the
premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of insuring
compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.



140.08  EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.



1.   Each permit shall expire one year after the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided herein.  Application for
renewal should be made at least 30 days before the expiration date and when
made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the
permit will not be affected.



2.   When the Director denies renewal of a permit, the applicant shall not
be issued a permit for one year from the date of denial.  If, subsequent to
the denial, the Director finds that the basis for denial of the renewal
permit has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a permit if
at least a 90-day period has elapsed since the date the denial became final.



140.09  SUSPENSION.



The Director shall suspend a permit for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
is determined that the permittee or an employee of a permittee has:



1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;



2.   Become impaired or intoxicated through the use of alcoholic beverages
or controlled substances while on the sexually oriented business premises;



3.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;



4.   Knowingly permitted illegal gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises.



140.10  REVOCATION.



1.   The Director shall revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in
Section 140.09 occurs and the permit has been suspended within the preceding
twelve (12) months.



2.   The Director shall also revoke a permit if it is determined that:



   A.   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the
material submitted during the application process.



   B.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession,
use or sale of controlled substances on the premises.



   C.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution
on the premises.



   D.   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was
suspended.



   E.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sexual
conduct to occur in or on the premises.



   F.   A permittee is delinquent in the payment to the City or State
for any taxes or fees past due.



   G.   The owner or operator of the establishment knowingly allowed a
person under eighteen (18) years of age to enter an establishment.



   H.   There was a change of owner or operator for which a transfer
application was not filed in a timely manner.



3.   When the Director revokes a permit, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
permit for one year from the date revocation became effective.  If,
subsequent to revocation, the Director finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
permit if at least a 90-day period has elapsed since the date the revocation
became effective.



140.11  TRANSFER OF PERMIT.



A permittee shall not transfer the permit to another, nor shall a permittee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a permit at any
place other than the address designated in the application.



140.12  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.



Sexually oriented business shall be permitted in any C-3 zoned commercial
district, provided that:



1.   The sexually oriented business may not be operated within 1,000 feet
of:



   A.   A church, synagogue or regular place of religious worship;



   B.   A public or private elementary or secondary school;



   C.   A boundary of any residential district;



   D.   A public park;



   E.   A licensed day-care center; or



   F.   Another sexually oriented business.



2.   A sexually oriented business may not be operated in the same
building, structure, or portion thereof, containing another sexually oriented
business.



3.   For the purpose of this section, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, synagogue, regular place of worship or public or
private elementary or secondary school or to the nearest boundary of an
affected public park, residential district or residential lot, or licensed
day-care center.



4.   For purposes of subsection 3 of this section, the distance between
any two sexually oriented business uses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest
exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.



140.13  NONCONFORMING USES.



1.   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter that is in violation of the configuration
requirements with regard to structure and location contained in this chapter
shall be deemed a nonconforming use.  The nonconforming use will be
permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two years, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days
or more.  Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended, or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming
use.  If two or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of
one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented
business that was first established and continually operating at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later established business is
nonconforming.



2.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually oriented business permit, of a church, synagogue
or regular place of religious worship, public or private elementary school or
secondary school, licensed day-care center, public park, or residential
district within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business.  This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit and does not apply
when an application for a permit is submitted after a permit has expired or
has been revoked.



140.14  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.



1.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable
presumption that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined
in this chapter.



2.   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually oriented business permit, rents or sub-rents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, rents or
sub-rents the same sleeping room again.



For purposes of subsection 2 of this section, the term “rent” or
“sub-rent” means the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form
of consideration.



140.15  REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.



A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room
of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, or other
video reproduction that depicts “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”, shall comply with the following
requirements:



1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented permit, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted.  A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area.  The diagram shall also designate the
place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted.  A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should
be oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to
an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.  The Director may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared. 



2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant. 



3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Director.



4.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.



5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
excluding restrooms.  Restrooms may not contain video reproduction
equipment.  If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designated,
then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any
patron is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the
manager’s stations.  The view required in this subsection must be by
direct line of sight from the manager’s station.



6.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection 5 remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that
has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to subsection 1 of this section.



7.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.



8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access to an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.



9.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron
is present in the premises.



140.16  EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.



1.   It is unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.



2.   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.



3.   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color.  This provision shall not apply
to a sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:



   A.   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center;
and



   B.   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are
painted the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to
be a component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the
commercial multi-unit center.



   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the
painting of an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented
business.



140.17  SIGNAGE.



1.   Notwithstanding any other City ordinance, code or regulation to the
contrary, it is unlawful for the owner or operator of any sexually oriented
business or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign for
the sexually oriented business other than the one primary sign and one
secondary sign, as provided herein.



2.   Primary signs shall have no more than two (2) display surfaces. 
Each such display surface shall:



   A.   Not contain any flashing lights;



   B.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;



   C.   Not exceed seventy-five (75) square feet in area; and



   D.   Not exceed ten (10) feet in height or ten (10) feet in length.



3.   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.



4.   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color
and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size and color.  The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign
shall be of a uniform and solid color.



5.   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface.  Such display
surface shall:



   A.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;



   B.   Not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area;



   C.   Not exceed five (5) feet in height and four (4) feet in width;
and



   D.   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.



6.   The provisions of paragraph A of subsection 2 and of subsections 3
and 4 shall also apply to secondary signs.



140.18  PERSONS YOUNGER THAN EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED.



1.   It is unlawful to allow a person who is younger than eighteen (18)
years of age to enter or be on the premises of a sexually oriented business
at any time that the sexually oriented business is open for business.



2.   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to
the sexually oriented business at all times during regular business hours. 
It shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years from entering the sexually oriented business.  It shall
be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the age of 18 unless
such attendant asked for and was furnished:



   A.   A valid operator’s commercial operator’s or chauffeur’s
driver’s license; or



   B.   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the State
reflecting that such person is 18 years of age or older.



140.19  MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.



It is unlawful for any establishment, regardless of whether it is a public or
private facility, to operate a massage salon, massage parlor or any similar
type of business where any physical contact with the recipient of such
services is provided by a person of the opposite sex unless licensed by the
State of Iowa.



140.20  CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED. 



The permittee of a sexually oriented business shall not allow the possession
or consumption on premises by any person of any alcoholic beverage, wine, or
beer.  No person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverage, wine, or
beer on the premises of any sexually oriented business.



140.21  NOTICES.



1.   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Director or any
other City office, division, department or other agency under this chapter to
any applicant, operator or owner of an establishment may be given either by
personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as specified in the
application for the permit, or transfer application that has been received by
the Director, or any notice of address change that has been received by the
Director.  Notices mailed as above shall be deemed given upon their deposit
in the United States mail.  In the event that any notice given by mail is
returned by the postal service, the Director shall cause it to be posted at
the principal entrance to the establishment.



2.   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Director by any
person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the Director.



3.   It is the duty of each owner who is designated on the permit
application and each operator to furnish a notice to the Director in writing
of any change of residence or mailing address.



140.22  INJUNCTION.



A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid permit or otherwise violates this chapter is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations.



140.23  EXEMPTIONS.



It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated by:



1.   A proprietary school licensed by the State of Iowa or a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or



2.   A private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.



CHAPTER 141
PAWNBROKERS



 



141.01  Definitions
 
141.11  Records; Failure to Maintain


141.02  License Required
 
141.12  Dealings with Minors


141.03  Criteria Considered in Licensing
 
141.13  Identification Tags


141.04  License Issuance
 
141.14  Prohibited Acts


141.05  Denial, Suspension or Revocation of License
 
141.15  Age and Number of Employees


141.06  Renewals
 
141.16  Safe Storage; Insurance


141.07  Selling or Transferring Prohibited
 
141.17  Search for Stolen Property


141.08  Separate License
 
141.18  Permitted Locations


141.09  Display of License
 
141.19  License Fee


141.10  Records
 
 




 



141.01    DEFINITIONS.



Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the purpose
of this chapter, have the meanings in this section:



1.   "Negative police report" means a report or review compiled by the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, which discloses a criminal record of
a felony, or any conviction under this chapter, two or more times in a
calendar year, or a conviction under the Iowa Code.



2.   "Pawnbroker" means every person who makes loans or advancements upon
pawn, pledge, or deposit of personal property, or who receives actual
possession of personal property as security for loans, with or without a
mortgage or bill of sale thereon, who, by advertisement, sign, or otherwise
holds himself or herself out as a pawnbroker, is a "pawnbroker" within the
meaning of this chapter.



3.   "Positive police report" means a report or review compiled by the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, which does not disclose a criminal
record of a felony, or any conviction under this chapter, two or more times
in a calendar year, or a conviction under the Iowa Code.



141.02    LICENSE REQUIRED. 



1.   No person shall engage in the pawn business without first obtaining a
pawnbroker license.  Applicants for such licenses shall apply, in writing,
to the City Clerk.  All license applications shall contain the following
information: (1) full name, residential address, business address, and date
of birth, of the applicant, and whether the applicant is a corporation or
partnership, of the officers or partners; (2) the name and address of the
owner of the business premises; (3) the business, occupation, or employment
of the applicant, including location thereof, for the two years immediately
preceding the date of application; and (4) the arrest record of the applicant
and whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime, except simple
misdemeanor traffic violations.



2.   If any person mentioned in this section has been so convicted, a
statement must be made giving the place and court in which such conviction
was had, the specific charge under which the conviction was obtained, and the
sentence imposed as the result of such conviction.



141.03    CRITERIA CONSIDERED IN LICENSING.



1.   Pawnbroker licenses are available at a rate of one license per 25,000
in population as certified by the most recent United States census.



2.   Upon receipt of a pawnbroker license application, the City Clerk
shall forward a copy of the application to the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, who shall review the application.  The applicant shall furnish
such evidence as may be reasonably required in support of the statement set
forth in the application.



3.   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall report to the City
Clerk within thirty days of receipt of the application considering, but not
limited to, the following criteria: (1) where the applicant or his or her
agents or employees charged with receiving or distributing property have been
convicted of a felony.  However, if the conviction of a felony occurred more
than five years before the application for a pawnbroker license, and if such
person's rights of citizenship have been restored by the Governor, such
conviction shall not be a bar to obtaining a pawnbroker license; (2) whether
the applicant has truthfully reported all relevant facts within the
pawnbroker application; and (3) applicant has such financial standing and
good reputation to indicate that he or she will comply with all laws of the
State of Iowa, and the City.



141.04    LICENSE ISSUANCE. 



1.   Upon receipt of a positive police report, and the appropriate fees,
the City Clerk shall approve the application, if the applicant has fully
complied with all of the requirements of this chapter, and the City Clerk
shall thereupon issue a pawnbroker license to the applicant and forward a
copy of such to the Chief of Police.  The license shall expire on the last
day of December next after the date of issuance.  The license shall state
the name and place of residence of the person licensed, the business to be
transacted, the place where it is to be carried on, and the date of issuance
and expiration of the license.



2.   In the event that the City Clerk determines that the applicant for a
new or renewal license has not fully complied with all of the requirements of
this chapter, or that the police department returns a negative report, or
that the applicant has falsified his/her application, then the City Clerk
shall, after consultation with the legal department, advise the City Council
of the basis for questioning the applicant's qualifications, and the
procedures for notice and hearing, as set forth in this code shall apply.



141.05    DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.



1.   Grounds for Denial, Suspension, or Revocation.  A pawnbroker license
may be denied, suspended, or revoked for any violation of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, the failure to comply with new or renewal
application procedures, a negative police report, falsification of new or
renewal applications, or for the failure to maintain records in conformity
with the requirements enumerated under this chapter.



2.   Denial, Suspension, or Revocation Proceedings.  The City Clerk
shall, upon receipt of information alleging that grounds exist to deny,
suspend, or revoke the pawnbroker license of any applicant or licensee under
this chapter, and after consultation with the legal department, report the
circumstances to the City Council, which, in such case, shall cause a notice
to be sent by ordinary mail to the applicant or licensee, which notice shall
state that a denial, suspension, or revocation hearing has been set before
the City Council, grounds for the proposed denial, suspension, or revocation,
the date and time of the hearing and the place where the hearing will be
conducted.  Upon such hearing, if the City Council shall determine that one
or more of such grounds do exist, it may deny an application or suspend or
revoke an existing license.  A suspension shall constitute a minimum period
of fourteen calendar days to a maximum period of thirty calendar days, during
which period the licensee may not conduct any business except for redemptions
and shall conspicuously post a sign stating the terms of the suspension at
the entrance of the licensed premises.  Such sign shall be supplied by and
posted by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee.  In the event such
license is revoked, no pawnbroker license shall be issued to that licensee
for the period of one year.



141.06    RENEWALS.



Every licensed pawnbroker shall apply for a license annually by application,
as if for an original license.  There shall be no automatic renewal, such
application shall be filed, and a fee paid not less than forty-five days
prior to the expiration of the current license.



141.07    SELLING OR TRANSFERRING PROHIBITED.



No pawnbroker license shall be sold or transferred.  The purchaser or
purchasers of a pawnbroker business, or of the majority of the stock of a
corporation operating a pawnbroker business, shall make application for, and
obtain, a new license before operating such business at the location for
which the license has been issued.



141.08    SEPARATE LICENSE.



Any person conducting several or separate pawnbroker businesses shall pay the
license fee and procure a license for each place, and any violations in one
licensed premises shall be deemed violations in all premises licensed by that
pawnbroker.



141.09    DISPLAY OF LICENSE.



Every licensed pawnbroker shall display his or her license conspicuously in
the business so that it may be readily observed by all persons entering the
premises.



141.10    RECORDS. 



1.   Every pawnbroker shall accurately and legibly enter in ink, in the
English language, the following information at the time of purchase or
receipt of any property: (1) the date and hour of the transaction; (2) the
amount paid, advanced, or loaned for the article; (3) a detailed and accurate
description of the article; (4) when applicable, the model number and/or
serial number; and (5) the name, house number and street of the person from
whom the property is purchased or received, his/her date of birth, driver's
license number, State of Iowa identification number or Social Security
number, sex, age, height, race and type of photo identification presented,
(6) the amount lent and the number of any pawn ticket issued therefor.



2.   When the pawn log sheets are complete, or upon demand from the Chief
of Police, or his or her designee, the licensee shall surrender the original
sheets to the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, who shall provide a
copy of the sheets to the licensee; the originals to remain the property of
the City.  The licensee shall also maintain a record of the name and
residential address of a person redeeming an article of property, the date of
such transaction, and a description of the article redeemed.  In the event
property is disposed of, other than by redemption, the licensee shall record
a description of the property, how disposed, and the name and address to whom
the article was transferred.  Such redemption or sales records shall be
maintained by the licensee for one year from the date of the transaction, and
shall be, at all times, open to examination and recordation by the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee.



3.   Every pawnbroker shall install, maintain and operate a security
camera system that captures the video images of persons transacting business
on the premises.  The video capture shall hold images for at least 15 days.



141.11    RECORDS; FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.



No licensee, his or her agents or employees, shall fail to maintain or
surrender or falsify, delete, alter, or otherwise destroy any records
required by this chapter.



141.12    DEALINGS WITH MINORS.



A pawnbroker shall not purchase or receive any item from a minor, unless he
or she first receives the written consent of the parents or guardian of the
minor.  Such consent shall be attached in the record book as a part of the
permanent record.



141.13    IDENTIFICATION TAGS.



The licensee, his or her agents or employees, shall also legibly record the
date and hour the property was purchased or received on the property, or such
information shall be securely affixed to the property.  Such information
must conform to the information recorded under this chapter.



141.14    PROHIBITED ACTS. 



1.   No licensee, his or her agents or employees, purchasing or receiving
any article of property shall: (1) receive any property without first viewing
a form of identification containing the photograph of the person identified;
(2) melt, alter, destroy, sell, redeem, remove from the licensed premises or
otherwise dispose of such article, within fifteen days after the receipt and
report of any property is made as required by this chapter, except upon
written permission from the Chief of Police, or his or her designee; (3)
purchase or receive any property from any person under the age of eighteen
years, without his or her parents or guardian being present at the time of
the transaction, and without receiving a consent, a copy of which must be
submitted along with the records required by this chapter; (4) purchase or
receive any property or surrender any property from six p.m. to eight a.m.,
Monday through Saturday, and six p.m. Saturday to eight a.m. Monday; (5)
conceal, secrete, or destroy, for the purpose of concealing, any article
purchased or received for the purpose of preventing identification; (6)
deface, alter, or remove any serial number or identifying marks from an
article in his or her possession; (7) take possession of debased or altered
property, as described in (6) above.  However, those licensed pawnbrokers in
possession of such property at the time of passage of this chapter shall have
sixty days to dispose of such property.



2.   Each pawnbroker shall retain in his or her possession the property
pawned for at least one hundred twenty days from the date of the pawn.



3.   Each pawnor has a right to redeem his or her property within the
period of possession required in subsection 2 of this section.  Property not
so redeemed may be sold by the pawnbroker.



141.15    AGE AND NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES.



1.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to employ any clerk or person
under the age of eighteen years to receive any pawn or make any loan.



2.   Each pawnbroker shall employ and have on premises during hours of
operation at least two employees at the age of eighteen years or older.



141.16    SAFE STORAGE; INSURANCE.



Each pawnbroker licensed under the provisions hereof shall provide a safe
place for the keeping of the property received by him or her and shall have
sufficient insurance on the property held in pawn to cover the pawnors' loss
in case of destruction by fire or natural disaster.  This policy shall
provide coverage directly to the pawnors, as their interest may appear.



141.17    SEARCH FOR STOLEN PROPERTY.



1.   Whenever the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, has reason to
believe that any licensee, or his or her agents or employees, has possession
of any stolen property on the licensed premises, he or she shall have the
right and duty to enter and search the premises of such person for the
purpose of discovering stolen property.



2.   No licensee, his or her agents or employees, shall refuse, resist, or
attempt to prevent the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, with or
without warrant, from examining the licensed premises for the purposes of
discovering stolen property, or any violation of this chapter.



141.18    PERMITTED LOCATIONS.



This section seeks to ensure that residential, public, family uses and
pawnbrokers and delayed deposit services will be located in separate and
compatible locations.  It is a subject of legitimate concern for the City to
ensure the quality of life and protect the property values and economic
vitality of its neighborhoods.



1.   Location.  No person, whether as principal or agent, clerk or
employee, either himself or herself or any other person, or as an officer of
any corporation, or otherwise, shall place, maintain, own or operate any
pawnbroker or delayed deposit service business in the following locations:



   A.   In any zoning district other than commercially or industrial
zoned areas of the City.



   B.   Within one thousand feet (1,000 ft.) of any residentially zoned
or used property, or any property designated on the City's comprehensive plan
as residential oriented.



   C.   Within one thousand feet (1,000 ft.) of a church which conducts
religious programs.



   D.   Within one thousand feet (1,000 ft.) of a children's daycare,
nursery school, preschool, elementary school, junior high school or senior
high school.



   E.   Within one thousand feet (1,000 ft.) of any park or
recreational facility operated and improved by the City.



2.   Measurement of Distance.  The distance between any pawnbroker or
delayed deposit service facilities and any daycare, school, church, public
park, or any property designated for residential use or used for residential
purposes shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures, from the closest property line of the pawnbroker or delayed
deposit service facility to the closest property line of any daycare, school,
church, public park or any property designated for residential use or used
for residential purposes.



141.19    LICENSE FEE.



The fee for a license, under this chapter, shall be five hundred dollars per
year.



(Chapter 141 - Ord. 1730 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



CHAPTER 150
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE



 

150.01  Removal of Warning Devices
 
150.07  Washing Vehicles


150.02  Obstructing or Defacing
 
150.08  Burning Prohibited


150.03  Placing Debris On
 
150.09  Maintenance of Parking


150.04  Playing In
 
150.10  Failure to Maintain Parking or Terrace


150.05  Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
 
150.11  Dumping of Snow 


150.06  Use for Business Purposes
 
150.12  Driveway Culverts



 



150.01  REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.



It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other article
or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon
for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said
street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1) 



150.02  OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.



It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface, or injure any street or
alley in any manner.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



150.03  PLACING DEBRIS ON.



It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish,
litter, offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the
storm sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)



150.04  PLAYING IN.



It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.  No
objects, toys or items used in conjunction with sports or athletic skills
shall be placed, hang over or otherwise extend beyond the curb and into the
street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])



150.05  TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.



It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer
or member of the fire department.



150.06  USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.



It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.



150.07  WASHING VEHICLES.



It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or
any vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. 
This does not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own
vehicle or equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.



150.08  BURNING PROHIBITED.



No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.



150.09  MAINTENANCE OF PARKING .



1.   For use in this chapter, "parking" means that part of the public
right-of-way in the City not covered by the sidewalk and lying between the
lot line and the curb line; or, on unpaved streets, that part of the public
right-of-way lying between the lot line and that portion of the street
usually traveled by vehicular traffic.



2.   It shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner to
maintain all property within the parking, except that the abutting property
owner shall not be required to remove dead, diseased, or dying trees on the
publicly owned property.  Maintenance includes, but is not limited to,
timely mowing, trimming of trees and shrubs, removing tree debris, and
removing litter.



3.   Underground irrigation systems are allowed in the parking with the
understanding that it is at the abutting property owner's risk.  Any
maintenance, repair, or replacement of the irrigation system caused by City
maintenance or construction activities within the parking will be the
responsibility of and at the expense of the abutting property owner.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])



(Ord. 1973 - Aug. 19 Supp.)



150.10  FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PARKING OR TERRACE.



If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in
the same manner as a property tax.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e]) 



150.11  DUMPING OF SNOW.



1.   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks,
or driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct
gutters, or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to
create a hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large
commercial drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move
the snow onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be
removed promptly by the property owner or agent.  Arrangements for the
prompt removal of such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])



2.   It is unlawful for any property owner to plow or push snow from the
driveway or property of said owner onto another private property.  Such snow
shall be kept on the property of the owner or on the parkway grass abutting
the owner’s property.



150.12  DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.



The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert
deemed necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s
property; and before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained
from the City.  Culverts shall be of such size and material as required by
the City.  In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to
culverts, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to make such
repairs, and, in the event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the
right to make the repairs.  If the property owner fails to reimburse the
City for the cost of said repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County
Treasurer and specially assessed against the property as by law provided.



CHAPTER 151
EXCAVATIONS



 

151.01  Excavations Permitted on Private Property; Restoration Required
 
151.05  Restoration of Unpaved Streets


151.02  Requirements for Excavations on Public Property
 
151.06  Utility Connections; Inspection Requirement


151.03  Right-of-Way Permit - Requirements and Fee
 
151.07  Safeguards


151.04  Restoration of Paved Streets
 
151.08  Refusal to Issue Permit



 



151.01  EXCAVATIONS PERMITTED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; RESTORATION REQUIRED.



1.   All trenches, holes or excavations on private property reasonably
necessary for the construction of basements, cellars, buildings,
appurtenances, or improvements thereto, or if made for the purpose of
installing gas, water or underground utilities, shall be permitted; provided,
said trenches, holes or excavations shall be refilled, re-graded or otherwise
covered within thirty (30) days after the date of their excavation.



2.   The provisions of subsection 1 shall not be deemed to apply to any
excavation made for the purpose of constructing a basement, cellar or footing
if construction of said basement, cellar, or footing has commenced within
said 30-day period.



3.   The time provided in subsection 1 may be extended, in writing, for
additional periods of thirty days only upon a showing by the titleholder or
any duly authorized agent that, due to weather conditions or other factors
over which the applicant has no control, compliance with subsection 1 would
create unreasonable hardship.



4.   If the Council finds, for good cause shown, good reason exists for
allowing an excavation to remain open in contravention of this section, the
Council may, by resolution, require that the property owner erect a fence or
other appropriate safeguards around the excavation until such time as the
construction is complete or the excavation refilled. 



151.02  REQUIREMENTS FOR EXCAVATIONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.



No person shall enter the public right-of-way to excavate, bore, tunnel, or
otherwise construct within the said right-of-way, break up any street, alley
or other public place of the City, or cut into or remove any public sidewalk,
curb, crossing or pavement for the purpose of making any gas, water, sewer,
or underground utility connections; or for the setting of poles, or laying of
mains, pipes or conduits, without first obtaining a right-of-way permit from
the Public Works Director or authorized agent.



151.03  RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT - REQUIREMENTS AND FEE. 



1.   A right-of-way permit application shall be obtained and submitted to
the Public Works Director or authorized agent which conveys the extent and
purpose of the contemplated work; the time when same is proposed to be done,
for whom and in connection with what property; in what street, alley or
public ground the excavation is to be made and its location thereon; to what
street main the connection is to be made; and the name of the person engaged
in doing the work and the person in charge thereof.



2.   Permit Form. A permit application form is available from the Public
Works Director. Said form, when completed, will include the above required
information.



3.   Insurance Requirements.  Right-of-way permit applications shall be
accompanied by an insurance certificate unless the applicant already has an
insurance certificate on file with the Public Works Department that is still
in effect. The insurance certificate shall meet the limits,  requirements,
indemnifications and coverage according to the Statewide Urban Design and
Standard Specifications (SUDAS), Section 1070 – Part 3.02 Insurance
Requirements.



4.   Indemnification. All applications for a right-of-way permit shall
contain a stipulation that the applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless
the city from any and all costs, expenses or liability for damages or
injuries to persons or property or liability of any kind whatsoever arising
from any work by the applicant for which the permit is issued.



5.   Bond. If the Public Works Director determines in his or her sole
discretion that a right-of-way permit applicant’s proposed use of the
right-of-way poses a risk of damage to the right of-way, the Director may
require such applicant to post a surety bond before the permit is issued.
Such bond, if required, shall be in the minimum amount of $5,000.00 or such
other amount determined by the Public Works Director to be sufficient to
cover the anticipated cost of damage to the right-of-way; and shall be
conditioned to ensure that the right-of-way is restored in a timely manner
and before the specified approximate completion date.



6.   Fee. Each permit application shall be accompanied with a fee of
$40.00 per individual application to cover the costs incurred by the City in
managing the rights-of-way.



151.04  RESTORATION OF PAVED STREETS.



The work of refilling any opening, trench or excavation in any paved street
or alley, replacing the pavement and restoring the same to proper condition,
and refilling any opening or excavation in any unpaved street, shall be done
under the direction of the Public Works Director and in accordance with the
approved city construction specifications.



1.   Open excavations that restrict the movement of traffic on City
streets must be backfilled, restored and reopened to traffic before the end
of the work day, unless approved otherwise by the Public Works Director or
authorized agent.



151.05  RESTORATION OF UNPAVED STREETS.



Whenever any opening, trench or excavation is made in an unpaved street not
ordered by the Council to be paved, the person making such opening, trench or
excavation shall refill the same with earth, thoroughly settled by tamping,
under the direction of the Public Works Director in accordance with the
approved city construction specifications.



151.06  UTILITY CONNECTIONS; INSPECTION REQUIREMENT.



All public utility connections shall be left exposed and the excavation for
the same unfilled until inspected by the Public Works Director. It shall be
the duty of any person making any excavation for such connections to notify
the Public Works Director at the time such connection is completed and the
excavation is ready to be refilled, in order that the same may be properly
inspected.



151.07  SAFEGUARDS.



All excavations or trenches in streets, alleys or on public grounds of the
City shall be guarded by proper traffic control devices according to the
current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices as prescribed by the Public
Works Director. Every person making an excavation shall maintain the traffic
control devices required by this section until the work zone is considered
suitable for re-opening to traffic according to the Public Works Director.



151.08  REFUSAL TO ISSUE PERMIT.



The Public Works Director may refuse to issue the permits provided for in
this chapter to any former permit holder who has intentionally violated the
sections of this Code relating to working within the right-of-way or who has
failed to conform to the requirements of any previously issued permit.



(Sections 151.02 – 151.08 - Ord. 1802 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



CHAPTER 152
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS



 



152.01  Purpose
 
152.11  Failure to Repair or Barricade


152.02  Definitions
 
152.12  Interference with Sidewalk Improvements


152.03  Removal of Snow, Ice and Accumulations
 
152.13  Encroaching Steps


152.04  Responsibility for Maintenance
 
152.14  Openings and Enclosures


152.05  City May Order Repairs
 
152.15  Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks


152.06  Sidewalk Construction Ordered
 
152.16  Defacing


152.07  Permit Required
 
152.17  Debris on Sidewalks


152.08  Sidewalk Standards
 
152.18  Merchandise Display


152.09  Location
 
152.19  Sales Stands


152.10  Barricades and Warning Lights
 




 



152.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.



152.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping
the sidewalk when it is hardening. 



2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or
more of the following characteristics:



   A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or more. 



   B.   Horizontal separations equal to one (1) inch or more.



   C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or more
and at least four (4) inches in diameter. 



   D.   Spalling over fifty percent (50%) of a single square of the
sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to one-half (½) inch or more.



   E.   Spalling over less than fifty percent (50%) of a single square
of the sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths (¾) inch
or more. 



   F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no
part thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.   



   G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.



   H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or
greater than three-fourths (¾) inch per foot.



3.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for
the particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.   



4.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the
concrete is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.



5.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property
abutting any sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of
notification required herein.  For all other purposes, “owner” includes
the lessee, if any. 



6.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous
cement. 



7.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business,
residential or suburban areas.



8.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction,
repair, replacement or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating,
filling or depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection
therewith. 



9.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by
smoothing the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.



152.03  REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND ACCUMULATIONS.



It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to remove snow, ice
and accumulations promptly from sidewalks.  If a property owner does not
remove snow, ice or accumulations within 24 hours after the snow or ice
ceases to fall, the City may do so and assess the costs against the property
owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])



152.04  RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.



It is the responsibility of the abutting property owners to repair, replace
or reconstruct, or cause to be repaired, replaced or reconstructed, all
broken or defective sidewalks and to maintain in a safe and hazard-free
condition any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb
lines or traveled portion of the public street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2c]) 



152.05  CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.



If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the
owner to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within thirty (30) days,
and if such action is not completed within such time, the Council may require
the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])



152.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.



The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)



152.07  PERMIT REQUIRED.



No person shall remove, reconstruct or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City and shall be accompanied by a permit fee as set
forth and established by Resolution of the City Council.



(Ord. 1803 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



152.08  SIDEWALK STANDARDS.



Sidewalks repaired, replaced or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be constructed in accordance with the City’s standard
specifications.  An official copy of the specifications is on file in the
Clerk’s office and the Public Works Department.  All such work shall be
done under the direction and supervision of and subject to inspection and
approval of the Public Works Director.  If such work does not comply with
the provisions of this chapter, the Public Works Director, after notice to
the property owner, shall cause the sidewalks to be constructed in the proper
manner and assess the cost for such work against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.



152.09  LOCATION.



Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge nearest the
abutting private property) one foot outside the property line, unless the
Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.



(Ord. 1803 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



152.10  BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.



Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or
when any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it is the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places
at each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material
deposited in the street, a sufficient number of approved traffic control
barricades, and to keep them lit during the entire night and to maintain said
barricades both at night and in the daytime to secure the same.  The party
or parties using the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter
are liable for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any
wrongful act or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or
employees or for any misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of
any failure to comply with provisions hereof.



152.11  FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.



It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.



152.12  INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.



No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or
upon any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall
remove or destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or
shall remove, destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy,
mar, remove or deface any notice provided by this chapter.



152.13  ENCROACHING STEPS.



It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of
the Council.



152.14  OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.



It is unlawful for a person to:



1.   Stairs and Railings.  Construct or build a stairway or passageway to
any cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose
any portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of
the Council. 



2.   Openings.  Keep open any cellar door, grating or cover to any vault
on any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect
the public. 



3.   Protect Openings.  Neglect to properly protect or barricade all
openings on or within six (6) feet of any sidewalk.



152.15  FIRES OR FUELS ON SIDEWALKS.



It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.



152.16  DEFACING.



It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint or writing
on any sidewalk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)   



152.17  DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.



It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2]) 



152.18  MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.



It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three (3) feet of the sidewalk next to the building be
occupied for such purposes.



152.19  SALES STANDS.



It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.



CHAPTER 153
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS



 

153.01  Power to Vacate
 
153.04  Findings Required


153.02  Plan and Zoning Commission
 
153.05  Disposal of Vacated Streets or Alleys


153.03  Notice of Vacation Hearing
 
153.06  Disposal by Gift Limited



 



153.01  POWER TO VACATE.



When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])



153.02  PLAN AND ZONING COMMISSION.



Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Plan and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.  The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within thirty (30) days after the date the proposed vacation is
referred to the Commission. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



153.03  NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.



The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.



153.04  FINDINGS REQUIRED.



No street, alley, portion thereof or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:



1.   Public Use.  The street, alley, portion thereof or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and
therefore, its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified. 



2.   Abutting Property.  The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.



153.05  DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.



When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public
ground, the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section
364.7, Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)



153.06  DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.



The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7[3])



 

EDITOR’S NOTE


All ordinances adopted by the City vacating certain streets, alleys and/or
public grounds, not codified herein, are specifically saved from repeal and
remain in full force and effect.



 



CHAPTER 154
STREET GRADES



 

154.01  Established Grades
 
154.02  Record Maintained



 



154.01  ESTABLISHED GRADES.



The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance are hereby confirmed, ratified and established as
official grades.



154.02  RECORD MAINTAINED.



The City shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.



 

EDITOR’S NOTE


All ordinances adopted by the City establishing street and/or sidewalk
grades, not codified herein, are specifically saved from repeal and remain in
full force and effect.



 



CHAPTER 155
NAMING OF STREETS



 

155.01  Naming New Streets
 
155.04  Official Street Name Map


155.02  Changing Name of Street
 
155.05  Revision of Street Name Map


155.03  Recording Street Names
 



 



155.01  NAMING NEW STREETS.



New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:



1.   Extension of Existing Street.  Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.



2.   Resolution.  All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.



3.   Plan and Zoning Commission.  Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Plan and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.



155.02  CHANGING NAME OF STREET.



The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.



155.03  RECORDING STREET NAMES.



Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)



155.04  OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.



(Repealed by Ordinance No. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



155.05  REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.



(Repealed by Ordinance No. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



CHAPTER 156
DRIVEWAYS



 

156.01  Permit Required
 
156.06  Effect of Adjacent Property


156.02  Permit Application
 
156.07  Inspection


156.03  Plans Required
 
156.08  Traffic Flow


156.04  Permit Fee
 
156.09  Discontinuance or Abandonment


156.05  Specifications
 



 



156.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.



It is unlawful for any person to commence or proceed with the construction of
any automobile driveway within the City, extending from the roadway of any
improved street in the City to and upon a portion of the sidewalk area
between the curb line of the street and the adjacent lot line, without first
obtaining a permit therefor.



156.02  PERMIT APPLICATION.



The application for a permit for the construction of an automobile driveway,
as provided in this chapter, shall be made by the owner, duly authorized in
writing, or by his agent.



156.03  PLANS REQUIRED.



Before the issuance of the permit required by this chapter, the applicant
therefor shall file with the Clerk, in form satisfactory to the City, a plan
of the work as proposed to be made, setting forth in detail the extent and
nature of the same and its location upon the street with reference to the
improved roadway and the adjacent property.  No permit shall be issued until
such plans are filed with the Clerk and approved by the City, and until the
fee for such permit has been paid.



156.04  PERMIT FEE.



The fee for a permit issued under this chapter shall be as set forth and
established by Resolution of the City Council.



156.05  SPECIFICATIONS.



No automobile driveway shall be constructed or maintained in the City that is
more than thirty-five (35) feet in width at the sidewalk with a maximum
radius of four (4) feet, or within four (4) feet of the intake to any
sewer.  The driveways leading to the same lot, or serving the same property
or business, shall be at least twenty (20) feet apart.  Between such
driveways, the sidewalk zone shall be limited to the use of pedestrians
only.  On the lot side of such sidewalk zone, a perpendicular curb at least
six (6) inches in height shall be constructed and maintained by the property
owner.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Council may,
upon application, approve a driveway which is greater than 35 feet in width
under such conditions as the Council, in its discretion, deems to be proper.



156.06  EFFECT OF ADJACENT PROPERTY.



No plans and specifications shall be approved or a permit issued for the
construction of an automobile driveway, at any inside lot corner, which is
more than seventeen and one-half (17½) feet in width where the owner of the
property immediately adjacent thereto has constructed and maintains a
driveway to his or her property at such corner; nor shall such plans and
specifications be approved or a permit issued for the construction of an
automobile driveway at any inside lot corner which is more than 17½ feet in
width where the owner of the property immediately adjacent thereto has not
constructed any driveway at such corner, unless and until the person applying
for such permit consents and agrees in writing, in the application therefor,
to remove such driveway to a distance of four (4) feet from such inside lot
corner if and when the owner of the property immediately adjacent to such
corner thereafter applies for or constructs an automobile driveway at the
adjacent corner of his or her property more than thirteen (13) feet in width.



156.07  INSPECTION.



All automobile driveways shall be constructed in accordance with the standard
sidewalk specifications of the City relating to driveways.  The applicant
shall notify the Clerk, when the driveway forms are in place and before the
concrete is poured, for the City to inspect such driveway forms.



156.08  TRAFFIC FLOW.



The City may, by ordinance, designate the permissible direction of traffic
flow onto and from multiple driveways that serve the same premises on any
occasion when the City determines that such regulation is necessary for the
safety of the traveling public.  In such event, the property owner shall, at
the property owner’s expense, erect traffic direction control devices of a
sufficient size to give notice of said ordinance to the traveling public. 
After erection of said control device, a vehicle shall only be driven in the
direction designated or permitted. 



156.09  DISCONTINUANCE OR ABANDONMENT.



If any automobile driveway is discontinued or the use thereof abandoned by
the owner of the property in front of which such driveway was constructed,
such owner, upon notice from the City, shall restore the curbing, parking and
sidewalk area to the condition they were in prior to the time such driveway
was constructed.  If such owner, after receiving such notice, for a period
of ten (10) days, refuses to comply with such order, the Council may order
the restoration of such curbing, parking and sidewalk.  The cost of such
restoration shall be assessed against the property in front of which such
automobile driveway was constructed, and may be collected with and in the
same manner as general property taxes.



(Sections 156.02 – 156.09 - Ord. 1804 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



CHAPTER 157
MAILBOXES



 

157.01  Purpose
 
157.05  Cluster-style Mailbox Requirements


157.02  Definitions
 
157.06  Curbside Mailbox Requirements


157.03  Visibility; Obstruction
 
157.07  Custom-built Mailbox Requirements


157.04  Cluster-style Mailbox Required in New Developments
 
157.08  Responsibilities of Property Owner



 



157.01  PURPOSE. 



The City’s right-of-way is held by the City primarily for the purpose of
pedestrian and vehicular passage and for the City’s provision of essential
public safety services, including police, fire and emergency medical response
services, and public health services, including sanitary sewer, water, and
storm drainage.  The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards for
mailboxes in order to maintain the safety and the visual character of the
City’s right-of-way.



157.02  DEFINITIONS. 



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined



1.   “Breakaway support” means a supporting post which shall be no
larger than a 4-inch x 4-inch wood post or a metal post with a strength no
greater than a 2-inch diameter schedule 40 steel pipe and which is buried no
more than 24 inches deep.  Such a support post shall not be set in concrete
unless specifically designed as a breakaway support system as defined in A
Guide for Erecting Mailboxes on Highways published by the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, May 24, 1984
(ASHTO).



2.   “Clear zone” means an unobstructed flat area adjacent to the
traveled portion of a roadway that is used for the recovery of errant
vehicles.



3.   “Cluster-style mailbox” means a style whereby mailboxes, meeting
the specifications of the United States Postal Service (USPS) with the
inscription plainly legible “U.S. MAIL” and “APPROVED BY THE POSTMASTER
GENERAL,” are assembled and grouped together on a single area of land so
that they are regarded as one unit.  Cluster-style mailboxes must be
manufactured cluster-style mailboxes approved by both the City and the USPS.



4.   “Curbside mailbox” means a mailbox consisting of a lightweight
sheet metal or plastic box meeting the specifications of the United States
Postal Service (USPS) with the inscription plainly legible “U.S. MAIL”
and “APPROVED BY THE POSTMASTER GENERAL,” which is erected at the edge of
a roadway or curbside of a street and is mounted on a breakaway support post,
and is intended or used for the collection of mail and is to be served by a
mail carrier from a vehicle.



5.   “Custom-built mailbox” means a mailbox erected at the edge of a
roadway or curbside of a street constructed using materials that do not meet
the definition of a “curbside mailbox” and “breakaway support.”



157.03  VISIBILITY; OBSTRUCTION. 



All mailboxes must be erected:



1.   Away from the intersection of any street and, in no case closer than
75 feet measured from the centerline of the intersecting street, in order to
prevent obstruction of free and clear vision; and



2.   Away from any location where, by reason of the position, shape, or
color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any
authorized traffic control device.



157.04    CLUSTER-STYLE MAILBOX REQUIRED IN NEW DEVELOPMENTS. 



All new residential or commercial developments constructed after the
enactment of the regulations contained in this chapter, except developments
in R-1 and R-2 Residence Districts, and which are situated on any public
street, avenue, or other roadway that is maintained by the City and receive
curbside delivery of mail shall have cluster-style mailboxes.  Any housing
development constructed and already receiving mail service before the
regulations in this chapter are enacted is not required to have cluster-style
mailboxes.



157.05  CLUSTER-STYLE MAILBOX REQUIREMENTS. 



Cluster-style mailboxes serving housing developments situated on any public
street or roadway shall be located between the sidewalk and curb, outside of
the three-foot (3') clear zone.  Cluster-style mailboxes shall not be
installed anywhere within a cul-de-sac bulb.  Cluster-style mailboxes shall
have a 4' concrete access from the public street and the public sidewalk. 
The location of the cluster-style mailboxes shall not exceed 300 feet from
the property line of those residents served by that cluster-style mailbox. 
Cluster-style boxes shall be located on property lines on the same side as
what the future no-parking areas will be.  The location of the cluster-style
mailbox is to be approved by the City and by the USPS.



The cost of installation, including but not limited to box units and concrete
pad, shall be borne by the developer, and subsequent maintenance shall be
carried out by the USPS.



No driveway or street access shall be constructed within five (5) feet of a
cluster-style mailbox.



157.06  CURBSIDE MAILBOX REQUIREMENTS. 



While curbside mailboxes may be installed in developments constructed and
already receiving mail service before the adoption of this chapter, the
mailbox owner must comply with the following installation requirements:



1.   The bottom of the mailbox shall be 42 inches from the top of curb. 
On streets without curbs, the bottom of the mailbox shall be 48 inches from
the edge of pavement, as defined by USPS installation requirements.



2.   Lateral placement of the mailbox shall be 6 inches to 8 inches from
the face of the curb, as defined by USPS installation requirements.



3.   The mailbox support post shall be of a “breakaway support”
design, as defined by AASHTO.



4.   The post-to-box attachment shall be of sufficient strength to prevent
the box from separating from the post if a vehicle strikes the post.



5.   Property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
curbside mailbox.



157.07  CUSTOM-BUILT MAILBOX REQUIREMENTS. 



A custom-built mailbox may be installed in developments constructed and
already receiving mail service before the adoption of this chapter if an
application for approval of a custom-built mailbox is submitted to the City
for review and is approved.  A custom-built mailbox must conform to the
following requirements and the rules set forth in the application:



1.   The structure supporting the mailbox shall be at least 12 inches from
the back of curb.



2.   The mailbox structure shall not exceed the dimensions of 2 feet in
width, 2 feet in depth, 5 feet in height.



3.   The mailbox structure shall be located on a concrete pad, 2 feet 6
inches wide, 2 feet 6 inches deep, and 4 inches thick.  The mailbox
structure shall not be permanently affixed to the concrete pad in an attempt
to make structure rigid.



4.   The local postmaster shall approve and sign off on the application
before submittal to the City.



5.   Property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
custom-built mailbox.  If the mailbox is damaged beyond use by the City, a
standard curbside mailbox and breakaway post as defined in this chapter will
be provided or the property owner can be reimbursed up to a maximum
replacement amount set by Council in a fee schedule.  If the property owner
performs the replacement, reimbursement will not exceed the established cost
for a standard curbside mailbox and breakaway post.  Property owner must
submit an application for a custom-built mailbox with the City prior to
making any needed repairs.



157.08  RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNER.



Any type of mailbox located in the City right-of-way is subject to damage or
destruction, at any time, as a result of the City or a person with a utility
easement entering upon the City right-of-way to construct, repair or maintain
the utilities located in the City right-of-way or as a result of the City
engaging in activities to maintain the public street or right-of-way, such as
snow removal, pavement repair or street cleaning.  If a curb side or
cluster-style mailbox located in the City right-of-way is damaged during such
activities, the City or the utility that damaged the mailbox shall reimburse
the property owner up to a maximum replacement amount set by Council in a fee
schedule for the cost of a mailbox of the same design, if it has been
approved for installment by the USPS with the proper markings inscribed
“U.S. Mail” and “Approved by the Postmaster General,” if it is still
available for purchase and complies with this chapter, and for the cost of
the installation of said mailbox.



(Ord. 1675 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



CHAPTER 158
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES



 

158.01  Exercise of Police Power
 
158.06  West 1st Street


158.02  Definition
 
158.07  Interstate 35


158.03  Unlawful Acts
 
158.08  Parking Prohibited on Portions of I-35


158.04  Ankeny Boulevard
 
158.09  Commercial Areas; Marginal Access Streets


158.05  East 1st Street
 



 



158.01  EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.



This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City
under Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1) 



158.02  DEFINITION.



The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street
especially designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or
occupants of abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only
a controlled right or easement of access, light, air or view by reason of the
fact that their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for
any other reason.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2) 



158.03  UNLAWFUL ACTS.



It is unlawful for any person to do the following:



1.   Drive a vehicle over, upon or across any curb, central dividing
section, or other separation or dividing line on controlled-access facilities;



2.   Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn except through an
opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section, separation or
line;



3.   Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for that purpose
and in the proper direction and to the right of the central dividing curb,
separation section or line;



4.   Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility from a local
service road except through an opening provided for the purpose in the
dividing curb or dividing section or dividing line which separates such
service road from the controlled access facility property.



158.04  ANKENY BOULEVARD.



There are fixed and established controlled access facilities with only a
controlled right of access to Ankeny Boulevard (Primary Road U.S. 69) from
the abutting properties from the south corporate limits to the north
corporate limits, all in accordance with the following plans for primary road
system extension improvements and projects which are on file in the office of
the Clerk:



1.   F-69-4 (1) 20-77, on the west side from Station 252 + 60 to 293 + 75
and on both sides from Station 293 + 75 to 306 + 89;



2.   FN-104, on both sides from Station 306 + 90 to 347 + 72.6;



3.   FN-187, on both sides from Station 1 + 75 to Station 13 + 30;



4.   FN-69-4 (6) 21-77, on the east side from Station 13 + 30 to Station
26 + 50;



5.   FI-187, Permit Number 1-803, on both sides at Station 12 + 73 and 24
+ 58;



6.   On the east side at Station 367 + .06;



7.   On the east side at Station 29 + 34.5;



8.   On both sides at Station 46 + 70.7 and temporary access at 45 + 23
subject to condition that the drive at 45 + 23 shall be abandoned at the time
that the east drive at 46 + 70.7 is constructed or North Ankeny Boulevard is
widened;



9.   On the west side at Station 9 + 15 per plan set #FN-69-4(55)-21-77.



158.05  EAST 1ST STREET.



There are fixed and established controlled access facilities, with only a
controlled right of access, on East 1st Street from Ankeny Boulevard to
(Delaware Avenue) (the east section line of Sections 13 and 24, Township 80
North, Range 24, West of the 5th P.M.), regulating access to and from the
abutting properties along said street.  Access to East 1st Street may be
placed only at the following locations, using Ankeny Boulevard as Station 86
+ 88 and increasing to the east:



1.   North Side:  Stations 86 + 88 (N. Ankeny Blvd.), 88 + 30, 89 + 66,
90 + 32, 91 + 92.78 (NE Grant), 94 + 82 (NE Oak), 97 + 72 (NE Sherman), 100 +
62 (NE Crestmoor), 103 + 92 (NE Bel-Aire), 106 + 02, 110 + 49, 112 + 85, 113
+ 54 (exit only), 115 + 60 (NE Trilein), 121 + 16, 123 + 53, 128 + 55, 131 +
06 (NE Hayes), 133 + 67, 136 + 16, 137 + 57, 139 + 49 (NE Delaware)



2.   South Side:  Stations 86 + 88 (S. Ankeny Blvd.), 87 + 85, 88 + 45,
88 + 88, 90 + 32, 90 + 85, 92 + 46, (SE Grant), 94 + 83, 96 + 90, 99 + 18,
100 + 62 (SE Sharon), 113 + 10 (SE Trilein), 117 + 60, 119 + 59, 122 + 16,
124 + 56, 126 + 56, 128 + 56, 131 + 06, 133 + 67, 136 + 16, 137 + 62, 139 +
49 (SE Delaware).



158.06  WEST 1ST STREET.



There are fixed and established controlled access facilities, with only
controlled rights of access onto West 1st Street from Ankeny Boulevard to its
western terminus being allowed and regulated; access to and from the abutting
properties along West 1st Street may be placed only at the following
locations, using Ankeny Boulevard as Station 0+00 and increasing to the west:



1.   North Side Stations:  1 + 19, 1 + 72, 3 + 85, 6 + 17, 7 + 83, (NW
School); 8 + 28, 11 + 46, 15 + 22 (Library); 23 + 16, 25 + 20 (NW Ash Drive);
28 + 33, 30 + 12 (NW Scott); 33 + 50 (NW Des Moines); 34 + 57, 35 + 30, 36 +
15, 36 + 85, 38 + 20 (NW Kline); 40 + 00, 42 + 45, 44 + 15, 48 + 72 (NW
Flynn); 50 + 75, 56 + 14, 57 + 74 (NW State); 58 + 36, 59 + 35, 60 + 71, 63 +
12, 64 + 69 (NW Sharmin); 66 + 07, 67 + 79, 71 + 00, 72 + 82 (NW College); 74
+ 83, 76 + 06, 77 + 30, 79 + 35 (NW Linden); and 83 + 32, 87 + 76, 90 + 76,
93 + 81, 96 + 81, 99 + 81, 102 + 98.5 and 105 + 81 (Irvinedale Drive)



2.   South Side Stations:  1 + 54, 1 + 94, 3 + 88 (SW Logan); 5 + 82, 6 +
50, 7 + 80 (SW School); 9 + 73, 9 + 98, 11 + 48 (SW Pleasant); 13 + 21, 15 +
23 (SW Walnut); 16 + 32, 16 + 96, 18 + 76 (SW Cherry); 20 + 57, 22 + 32, (SW
Maple); 22 + 96, 26 + 07, 27 + 96 (SW Scott); 29 + 27, 30 + 68, 32 + 54 (SW
Des Moines); 34 + 09, 34 + 39, 35 + 54, 36 + 54, 38 + 48, (SW Kline); 40 +
60, 41 + 26, 43 + 23, 43 + 59, 44 + 61, 45 + 68, 46 + 26, 47 + 30, 48 + 73
(SW Flynn); 50 + 40, 51 + 05, 51 + 75, 52 + 31, 53 + 21, 53 + 57, 54 + 84, 55
+ 68, 56 + 38, 57 + 74 (SW State); 63 + 43 (SW Arlan); 66 + 61 (SW Sharmin);
67 + 73, 69 + 42, 70 + 92, 83 + 52, 85 + 52, 87 + 76, 90 + 76, 93 + 81, 96 +
81, 99 + 81, 102 + 98.5 and 105 + 81 (Irvinedale Drive).



158.07  INTERSTATE 35. 



There are fixed and established controlled access facilities on the primary
road system extension improvement, Project No. I-35-4(6) 88 Primary Road No.
I-35, within the City, described as follows:  I-35 from SCL (Sta. 259+02) to
NCL (Sta. 285+57).



158.08  PARKING PROHIBITED ON PORTIONS OF I-35. 



Parking of any nature is prohibited on I-35 from SCL (Sta. 259+02) to NCL
(Sta. 285+57), on ramps and connections of the interchange, and on East 1st
Street from Northeast Twenty-second Street easterly 2,050 feet to Sta.
1282+50.



158.09  COMMERCIAL AREAS; MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS.



1.   Access to controlled access streets from commercially zoned property
shall be limited to 300-foot intervals.  The Council may require that such
property be served with marginal access streets, if necessary, to provide
access to abutting properties or, in lieu thereof, may require the party
requesting such access provide easements adequate to insure access to
adjoining properties. 



2.   Marginal access streets are minor streets which are parallel to and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways, and which provide access to
abutting properties and protection from through traffic.



3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Council, upon
application by the party seeking such access and upon a showing that
compliance with the requirements of this section is either impossible or
impractical, may waive all or part of said requirements.



CHAPTER 165
BUILDING NUMBERING



 

165.01  Numbering in Accordance with Plats
 
165.04  Assessment for Noncompliance


165.02  Certificate Delivered to Owner
 
165.05  Public Meeting Place; Directional Signs


165.03  Placement of Number
 



 



165.01  NUMBERING IN ACCORDANCE WITH PLATS.



All buildings and houses shall be numbered according to the plats now on file
in the office of the Clerk.  Such plats shall be preserved in said office
and the same shall be extended, as prepared by an engineer, as new streets or
new additions are opened and buildings placed thereon.



165.02  CERTIFICATE DELIVERED TO OWNER.



It is the duty of the Clerk to deliver to each owner, agent, or lessee making
application therefor, and furnishing the Clerk a description of the premises
and an accurate statement of the location thereon of the building for which a
number is sought, a certificate showing the number to be placed on said
building.



165.03  PLACEMENT OF NUMBER.



It is made the duty of the owner, agent or lessee of any building owned,
controlled or occupied by person and not now bearing a proper number, to
place or cause to be placed on such building in a conspicuous place, as near
as may be to the main entrance thereto so that it may be easily seen from the
street extending in front of said building, the number of such building as
shown by the certificate issued by the Clerk.



165.04  ASSESSMENT FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.



It is the duty of the building inspector to enforce the provisions of this
chapter respecting the duty of the owners, agents or lessees to number
buildings, and any person who fails to do so for a period of thirty days
after being notified in writing by the Clerk shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and the City may proceed to place a suitable number on said
building.  The Council may assess the cost thereof against the property and
collect the same in the same manner as general property taxes.



165.05  PUBLIC MEETING PLACE; DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.



Signs giving the name and location of public meeting places shall, at the
request of such organization, be placed upon the street name poles under the
direction of the City Engineer.  Such signs shall be of a size not exceeding
six inches by twenty-four inches.  There shall be not more than two of such
signs for any one meeting place.  The actual cost to the City for the
erection of such sign shall be paid by the organization requesting such
sign.  As used in this section, the words set forth below shall have the
meanings set opposite thereto:



1.   “Public meeting place” means any permanent facility with a
seating capacity of over fifty (50) persons, which is owned or operated by a
non-profit organization and is used exclusively by such organization.



2.   “Non-profit organization” includes only those organizations which
are exempt from income tax under Section 501(C)(3) of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code; e.g., corporations and any community chest fund or foundation
organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific,
testing for public safety, literary or educational purposes, or to foster
national or international amateur sports competition (so long as none of its
activities involve the providing of athletic facilities or equipment), or for
the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, no
substantial part of the activities of which is carrying on propaganda, or
otherwise attempting to influence legislation, and which does not attempt to
participate or intervene in any political campaign.



CHAPTER 166
TREES



 

166.01  Definition
 
166.05  Permit Specifications 


166.02  Permit Required
 
166.06  Permit Inspection 


166.03  Permit Application
 
166.07  Duty to Trim Trees


166.04  Permit Plans Required
 
166.08  Inspection and Removal



 



166.01  DEFINITION.



For use in this chapter, "parking" means that part of the public right-of-way
in the City not covered by the sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line; or, on streets without curbs, that part of the public
right-of-way lying between the lot line and that portion of the street
usually traveled by vehicular traffic.



166.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.



It is unlawful for any person to commence or proceed with the planting of any
tree within the parking, without first obtaining a permit therefor.



166.03  PERMIT APPLICATION.



The application for a permit for the planting of any tree within the parking,
as provided in this chapter, shall be made by the owner, duly authorized in
writing, or by his or her agent to the Public Works Director or designee.



166.04  PERMIT PLANS REQUIRED.



Before the issuance of the permit required by this chapter, the applicant
therefor shall submit with the application in a form satisfactory to the
City, a plan of the work as proposed to be made, showing in detail the type
of tree and its location along the street with reference to the street,
sidewalk, driveway, any light poles, traffic signs, fire hydrants, mailboxes,
and property lines.  No permit shall be issued until such plans are filed
with the Public Works Director or designee and approved by the City.



166.05  PERMIT SPECIFICATIONS.



The minimum tree diameter size, minimum planting area, tree alignment, tree
separation, and allowed street trees shall be defined in the Street Tree
Planting Permit Guidelines.



166.06  PERMIT INSPECTION.



All trees planted in the parking shall be planted in compliance with the
Street Tree Planting Permit Guidelines.  The applicant shall notify the
Public Works Director or designee after proposed tree locations have been
marked, for the City to inspect.



166.07  DUTY TO TRIM TREES.



The owner or agent of property abutting public right-of-way shall keep any
trees, shrubs, or other plantings overhanging the street, alley, or sidewalk
trimmed so that all branches will be at least fifteen (15) feet above the
surface of the street or alley and eight (8) feet above the surface of the
sidewalk.  If the abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, shrubs,
or other plantings, the City shall follow the Nuisance Abatement Procedures
(see Chapter 50).



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])



166.08  INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.



The Public Works Director or designee shall inspect or cause to be inspected
any trees in the public right-of-way reported or suspected to be dead,
diseased or dying, and such trees may be removed by the City.  The Public
Works Director or designee may also order the removal of any trees in the
parking which interfere with the making of improvements or with travel
thereon.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])



(Ch. 166 - Ord. 1973 - Aug. 19 Supp.)



CHAPTER 167
NOXIOUS WEEDS



 

167.01  Duty of Owner or Tenant
 
167.04  Exceptions to Height Restrictions


167.02  Vegetation Height Restrictions
 
167.05  County Weed Control Program


167.03  Cost of Cutting or Destruction
 
167.06  Noncompliance; Assessment of Costs



 



167.01  DUTY OF OWNER OR TENANT.



Each owner and each person in the possession or control of any lands shall
cut, burn or otherwise destroy, in whatever manner may be prescribed by the
Board of Supervisors of Polk County, all noxious weeds thereon as defined in
Chapter 317 of the Code of Iowa, at such times in each year, and in such
manner as shall be prescribed by the program of weed destruction order or
orders made by the Board of Supervisors, and shall keep the lands free from
such growth of any other weeds, as shall render the streets or highways
adjoining said land unsafe for public travel.



167.02  VEGETATION HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.



It shall be the duty of each owner or each person in the possession or
control of any lands lying within the City to keep such land free from weeds,
vines, brush or other vegetation when such growth constitutes a health,
safety or fire hazard, even though such weeds, vines, brush or other
vegetation do not fall within the definition of noxious weeds under the
provisions of Chapter 317 of the Code of Iowa.  No person shall allow or
permit grass or weeds or other vegetation to grow upon his property to a
height in excess of twelve (12) inches.  All grass or weeds or other
vegetation exceeding such height restrictions may be cut or eliminated by the
City after giving five days’ written notice to the owner or occupant of
such property.  Such notice may be mailed, by ordinary mail, to the
owner’s last address, no less than five (5) days prior to the required
action.  A failure to receive such notice shall not be deemed to be a
defense to any assessment certified under this section.



(Ord. 1723 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



167.03  COST OF CUTTING OR DESTRUCTION.



If the City destroys any weeds under the authority of this chapter, after
failure of the landowner responsible to destroy such weeds after being given
notice to do so, the cost of the destruction shall be assessed against the
land and collected from the property owner responsible in the following
manner:



1.   After the City has completed its program of the cutting or
destruction of weeds, the Council shall determine, as to each tract of the
real estate, the actual cost of the labor and materials used by the City in
cutting, burning, or otherwise destroying said weeds, or tall vegetation,
including the cost of serving notice to the property owners.  To the total
of all such sums expended, the Council shall then add twenty-five dollars
($25.00) to compensate for the cost of supervision of the administration, and
shall assess the resulting sum against said tract of real estate, which shall
be certified to the County Treasurer by the Clerk, and shall be placed upon
the tax books, and collected, together with interest and penalties, in the
same manner as other unpaid taxes.  When collected, the funds shall be paid
into the fund from which said costs were originally paid.



(Ord. 1723 - Jul. 12 Supp.)



2.   Before making any such assessment, the City Engineer shall, as
required under the provisions of Section 384.59 of the Code of Iowa, prepare
a plat and schedule of the several lots, tracts of land, or parcels of ground
to be assessed, which shall be in accord with the assessor’s records, and
the amount proposed to be assessed against each of the same, for destroying,
cutting or otherwise controlling weeds upon said property during the fiscal
year.



3.   The Council shall thereupon fix a time for the hearing on such
proposed assessments, which time shall be not later than December 15 of the
year, and at least fifteen days prior to the time thus fixed for such
hearing, shall give notice thereof to all concerned that such plat or
schedule is on file, and that the amounts as shown therein will be assessed
against the several lots, tracts, or lands, or parcels of ground described in
said tract or schedule at the time fixed for such hearing, unless objection
is made thereto.  Notice of such hearing shall be given by two publications
in a newspaper published within the City, the first publication of which
shall be not less than ten days before the date of the hearing.  At such
time and place, the owner of said premises, or anyone liable to pay such
assessment, may appear with the same rights given by law to property owners
who protest other special assessments.



4.   The procedures established for the assessment and collection of the
cost of weed cutting or elimination, shall only be applicable to the cutting,
burning, or destruction of weeds by the City, and shall have no applicability
to any actions taken under the direction of the County Weed Commissioner.



167.04  EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.



Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict the planting and
cultivation of any crop raised or harvested for use or sale for agricultural
purposes, such as corn, soybeans, hay or other generally recognizable
agricultural crops.



167.05  COUNTY WEED CONTROL PROGRAM.



Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict, alter, or modify the
jurisdiction of the County to eliminate noxious weeds as defined under
Chapter 317, Code of Iowa.



167.06  NONCOMPLIANCE; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.



In the event it is necessary for the Council to execute any order, as
authorized by Section 167.03, the Clerk shall certify the cost thereof to the
County Treasurer, which cost shall be collected with and in the same manner
as general property taxes.



CHAPTER 168
DRAINAGE CHANNELS



 

168.01  Obstructing Watercourses
 
168.02  Maintenance of Waterways



 



168.01  OBSTRUCTING WATERCOURSES.



Any person who willfully and without legal authority diverts, obstructs,
impedes or closes any ditch, drain or watercourse or breaks down or injures
any levee or the bank of any settling basin established, constructed and
maintained under any provisions of law, or who interferes with its proper
preservation, operation or maintenance, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished accordingly.



168.02  MAINTENANCE OF WATERWAYS.



Any existing and, when allowed by the Council, proposed ditches,
drainageways, or swales conducting water through or adjacent to a site shall
be maintained by the abutting property owner to the curb line or edge of
paving, in the case of a roadside ditch, or by the property owner to the
property line, in the case of other ditches, drainageways, and swales.  The
maintenance shall include clearing and mowing to allow natural channel flows
and prevent nuisances.  Where development or construction occurs around
existing drainageways, ditches, or swales, the following will be considered:



1.   Where practicable, they shall remain in natural condition.



2.   When relocation is permitted, they shall be constructed to a
maintainable slope and not unduly increase flood potential and/or damage
downstream.



3.   The channel, if reconstructed, shall not have less capacity than that
of the existing channel.



4.   The floodway shall be preserved so as to provide safe passage of the
design flood.



5.   A maintainable slope shall be considered to be a slope of 3:1 fall.



CHAPTER 169
CONSTRUCTION SITE EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL



 

169.01  Permit Required
 
169.04  Monitoring Procedures


169.02  Application for Permit
 
169.05  Enforcement


169.03  Inspection Procedures
 



 



169.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.



1.   Any person, entity, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
State agency or political subdivision (“applicant” or “person”)
required by law or administrative rule to obtain coverage under the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) General Permit No. 2 (General Permit No. 2) shall
also be required to obtain from the City a Construction Site Erosion and
Sediment Control Permit (COSESCO permit) in addition to and not in lieu of
the State authorization for coverage.



2.   IDNR authorization for coverage under General Permit No. 2 and a
COSESCO permit are required prior to construction activity that disturbs one
or more acres or which is part of a larger project that disturbs one acre or
more in total.



3.   Persons applying for a building permit, but who are not required to
obtain coverage under General Permit No. 2 or a COSESCO permit, will be
required to provide information regarding how they will comply with this
chapter.  Forms to provide this information will be available with the City
building permit applications.



4.   The person holding the permit (“permittee”) shall have primary
responsibility to comply with the General Permit No. 2 and the City COSESCO
permit requirements of this chapter.



169.02  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.



1.   Applications for COSESCO permits shall be made on forms approved by
the City which may be obtained at the Public Services Building.



2.   An applicant may be required to post security for compliance in
accordance with Section 200.39 of this Code of Ordinances.  The application
form signed by the applicant for a City COSESCO permit shall include the
following commitment by the applicant:  “In addition to the performance
security posted with this application, the undersigned applicant hereby
agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all
claims, damages or suits arising directly or indirectly out of any act of
commission or omission by the applicant, or any employee, agent, assign or
contractor or subcontractor of the applicant, in connection with
applicant’s coverage under General Permit No. 2 and/or City COSESCO permit.



3.   An applicant for a COSESCO permit shall pay fees as follows:  An
application/permit fee shall be paid at the time of application in the amount
of $120.00 plus $20.00 per acre or portion thereof for sites over one acre
total.



4.   An applicant who has applied for coverage under General Permit No. 2
shall submit with the application two full copies of the materials described
below as a basis for the City to issue a COSESCO permit:



   A.   Notice of Intent and supporting materials submitted to the IDNR
in support of applicant’s application for coverage under the General Permit
No. 2;



   B.   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).



   C.   Evidence of IDNR authorization for coverage received after
application for a COSESCO permit shall be submitted when it is received by
the applicant.



5.   Every SWPPP submitted to the City in support of an application for a
COSESCO permit shall:



   A.   Comply with all current minimum mandatory requirements for
SWPPPs promulgated by the IDNR in connection with General Permit No. 2; and



   B.   If the applicant is required by law to file a Joint Application
Form, Protecting Iowa Waters, Iowa Department of Natural Resources and U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, comply with all mandatory minimum requirements
pertaining to such applications; and



   C.   Include evidence of permit approval for all applicable State or
Federal permits in existence at the time of application; and



   D.   Be prepared by a licensed professional engineer or landscape
architect or a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC)
or a representative of the local Soil and Water Conservation District,
credentialed in a manner acceptable to the City; and



   E.   Include within the SWPPP a signed and dated certification by
the person preparing the SWPPP that the SWPPP complies with all requirements
of this chapter.



6.   In addition to the SWPPP requirements stated in subsection 5
immediately above which constitute minimum mandatory requirements imposed by
the Program, every SWPPP submitted to the City in support of an application
for a COSESCO permit shall comply with the Statewide Urban Design Standards
(SUDAS), including but not limited to design, location, and phased
implementation of effective, practicable storm water pollution prevention
measures.



7.   When a COSESCO permit is required, it shall be obtained prior to or
at the same time as issuance of a building permit, plat approval by Council
or site plan approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission.



8.   For so long as a construction site is subject to a General Permit No.
2 or a COSESCO permit, the applicant shall provide the City with current
information as follows:



   A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person on site
designated by the owner who is knowledgeable and experienced in erosion and
sediment control and who will oversee compliance with the General Permit No.
2 and the City COSESCO permit.



   B.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the contractors
and/or subcontractors that will implement each erosion and sediment control
measure identified in the SWPPP.



Applicant’s failure to provide current information shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.



9.   Property owners can transfer coverage of the General Permit No. 2 and
the COSESCO permit responsibility with the sale of property to homebuilders
or new lot owners.  Contractors and subcontractors can accept transfer of
responsibility as co-permittees.  Transferees must agree to the transfer in
writing, and must agree to fulfill all obligations of the SWPPP, the General
Permit No. 2 and the COSESCO permit.  Absent such written confirmation of
transfer of obligations received by the City, the permitted property owner
remains responsible for compliance on any lot that has been sold.  A
permittee shall notify the City of any transfers or any Notice of
Discontinuation sent to the IDNR for release of any property from a General
Permit No. 2 pursuant to 567 IAC 64.6(6) or any similar successor provision.



10.   Upon receipt of an application for a COSESCO permit, the City shall
either find that the application complies with this chapter and issue a
COSESCO permit in accordance with this chapter, or that the application fails
to comply with this chapter, in which case the City shall provide a report
identifying noncompliant elements of the application.



169.03  INSPECTION PROCEDURES.



1.   Compliance inspections shall be conducted by the Storm Water
Coordinator, or other representative of the City, hereinafter referred to as
the “enforcement officer.”  Inspections by the enforcement officer may
be scheduled or unannounced.



2.   Permittee shall notify the City at each phase of construction when
all measures required by the applicant’s SWPPP have been accomplished on
site.  Phases include but are not limited to grading, underground utilities,
paving and/or fine grading, building construction and final stabilization. 
Other phases may be as identified in the SWPPP.



3.   The City shall conduct regular inspections for the purpose of
determining compliance with this chapter, and shall within a reasonable time
thereafter report to the permittee either that compliance appears to have
been achieved, or that compliance has not been achieved.  At the time of
reporting to the permittee, any conditions of noncompliance shall be
identified.  The permittee shall immediately commence corrective action. 
Failure to take corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.



4.   Construction shall not occur on site from the time the City
identifies conditions of noncompliance until resolution of such conditions.



5.   Construction activities undertaken by a permittee prior to resolution
of conditions of noncompliance shall constitute a violation of this chapter.



6.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the permittee or to third parties for noncompliant conditions
undetected by inspection.



7.   Permittee shall notify the City in writing when the site is
permanently stabilized.



8.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant, permittee, or to third parties for
noncompliant conditions.



169.04  MONITORING PROCEDURES.



1.   Upon issuance of a COSESCO permit, a permittee has an absolute duty
to monitor site conditions and to report to the enforcement officer any storm
water discharge that is a violation of the water quality standards, or in a
manner inconsistent with the permittee’s SWPPP, General Permit No. 2 and/or
COSESCO permit.



   A.   Such report shall be made by the permittee to the enforcement
officer immediately but in any event within one (1) business day of the
discharge.



   B.   Failure to make a timely report shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.



2.   Any third party may also report to the City site conditions which the
third party reasonably believes pose a risk of storm water discharge in a
manner inconsistent with the applicant’s SWPPP, General Permit No. 2 and/or
COSESCO permit.



3.   Upon receiving a report pursuant to the previous subsections, the
enforcement officer shall conduct an inspection of the site as soon as
reasonably possible and thereafter shall provide the permittee with a notice
identifying the conditions of noncompliance.  The permittee shall
immediately commence corrective action.  Failure to take corrective action
in a timely manner shall constitute a violation of this chapter, whereupon
the enforcement officer shall immediately commence enforcement actions
specified in Section 169.05 below.



4.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the permittee or to third parties for noncompliant conditions
undetected by the inspection.



169.05  ENFORCEMENT.



1.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil
action including an action for injunctive relief.  In any civil enforcement
action, administrative or judicial, the City shall be entitled to recover its
attorney fees and costs from a person who is determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.



2.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may also be enforced as a
municipal infraction within the meaning of § 364.22, pursuant to Chapter 4
of this Code of Ordinances.



3.   Enforcement pursuant to this section shall be undertaken by the
enforcement officer upon the advice and consent of the City Attorney.



4.   If the enforcement officer finds any work regulated by this chapter
being performed in a manner either contrary to the provisions of this chapter
or dangerous or unsafe, the enforcement officer is authorized to issue a stop
work order.  The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to
the owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the
person doing the work.  Upon issuance of a stop work order, all work on site
shall immediately cease.  The stop work order shall state the reason for the
order, and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to
resume.  Any person who shall continue any work after having been served
with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to
penalties as stated in this chapter.



CHAPTER 175
BUILDING CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IBC Section
 
IRC Section


175.01
 
Short Title
 
 


175.02
 
Adoption of Building Code
 
 


175.03
 
Amendments, modifications, additions and deletions
 
 


175.04
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 
 


175.05
 
Deletions
 
423.4, 3109
 


175.06
 
Title
 
101.1
 
R101.1


175.07
 
Referenced Codes
 
101..4
 


175.08
 
Energy
 
101.4.6
 
R101.3.1


175.09
 
Creation of Enforcement Agency
 
103.1
 
R103.1


175.10
 
Required (permits) Platting
 
105.1
 
R105.1


175.11
 
Work exempt from permit
 
105.2
 
R105.2


175.12
 
Expiration
 
105.5
 
R105.5


175.13
 
Revocation of Permit
 
105.6.1
 
R105.6.1


175.14
 
Plan Review Fees
 
109.2.1
 
R108.2.1


175.15
 
Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance
 
109.4
 


175.16
 
Use & Occupancy
 
 
R110.1


175.17
 
Underground Utility Installation
 
112.4
 
R111.4


175.18
 
Definitions
 
202
 
R202


175.19
 
Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
 
 
Table R301.2(4)A


175.20
 
Exterior Walls
 
 
R302.1


175.21
 
Two-Family Dwellings
 
 
R302.3


175.22
 
Dwelling/Garage Fire Separation
 
 
R302.6


175.23
 
Dwelling/Garage Separation
 
 
Table R302.6


175.24
 
Fire Protection of Floors (effective January 1, 2018)
 
 
R302.13


175.25
 
Bathrooms (Exhaust) 
 
 
R303.3


175.26
 
Basements Ceiling Height - Existing
 
 
R305.1.1


175.27
 
Operational Constraints
 
1030.4
 
R310.1.1


175.28
 
Window Sill Height
 
 
R310.2.2


175.29
 
Emergency Escape Windows Under Decks & Porches
 
 
R310.2.4


175.30
 
Alterations or Repairs of Existing Basements
 
 
R310.6


175.31
 
Floor Elevations For Other Exterior Doors
 
 
R311.3.2


175.32
 
Risers
 
 
R311.7.5.1


175.33
 
Continuity
 
 
R311.7.8.2


175.34
 
Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinklers Systems
 
 
R313.1


175.35
 
Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems One & Two Family exception
 
 
R313.2


175.36
 
Frost Protection
 
 
R403.1.4.1


175.37
 
Foundation Walls – lateral support
 
 
R404.1


175.38
 
Foundation Walls For Conventional Light Frame Wood Construction
 
1807.1.5.1 & Table
 
R404.1.3.2.3/Table


175.39
 
Foundation Drainage – sump pumps
 
 
R405.3


175.40
 
Separation (garages)
 
406.3.4.1
 


175.41
 
Address Identification
 
501.2
 


175.42
 
Reinforcement Support
 
 
R506.2.4


175.43
 
Supports For Headers
 
 
Table R602.7.5


175.44
 
Basements
 
903.2.11.1.3
 


175.45
 
Alarms
 
903.4.2
 


175.46
 
FACP (Fire Alarm Control Panels)
 
907.1.4
 


175.47
 
Monitoring
 
907.6.6
 


175.48
 
Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing
 
 
G2414.5.4 (403.5.4)


175.49
 
CSST
 
 
G2415.2 (404.2)


175.50
 
Freezing
 
 
P2603.5


175.51
 
Sewer Depth
 
 
P2603.5.1


175.52
 
Continuity and Components
 
1009.2 #11
 


175.53
 
Two-way Communication
 
1009.8
 


175.54
 
Landings at Doors
 
1010.1.6.1
 


175.55
 
Hardware
 
1010.1.9.1
 


175.56
 
Handrails (elevation/#risers)
 
1011.11
 


175.57
 
Additional Exit Signs
 
1013.1.1
 


175.58
 
Continuity (handrails)
 
1014.4#6
 


175.59
 
Access to a Public Way
 
1028.5.1
 


175.60
 
Window Wells
 
1030.5.3
 


175.61
 
Energy Efficiency
 
Chapter 13
 
Chapter 11 [RE]


175.62
 
Vinyl Siding (weather-resistive barrier required)
 
1405.14.2
 


175.63
 
Ground Snow Loads
 
1608.2
 


175.64
 
Flood Loads
 
1612.1.1, 1612.1.2
 


175.65
 
Establishment of Flood Hazard Areas
 
1612.3
 


175.66
 
Frost Protection
 
1809.5
 


175.67
 
Table 2902.1 footnote ‘e’
 
T2902.1
 


175.68
 
Small Occupancies
 
2902.6
 




 



175.01   SHORT TITLE.



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Building Code, and may be cited as
such, and may be referred to herein as this chapter



175.02   ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.



Pursuant to published notice as required by law, the International Building
Code 2015 Edition; and the International Residential Building Code 2015
Edition, published by the International Code Council, Inc., is adopted in
full except for such portions as may be hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended. A copy of the International Building Code 2015 Edition as adopted, a
copy of the International Residential Code 2015 Edition as adopted and a copy
of this chapter are on file in the office of the Code Official.



175.03   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS.



The International Building Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known as the IBC),
and the International Residential Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known as
the IRC), are amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 175.04 through
175.68. 



175.04   REFERENCED CODES – CONFLICTS.  The remaining sections in this
chapter represent amendments to the requirements contained in the IBC and IRC.



In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and/or
Federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply except that all
references to flood hazard construction shall be coordinated in concurrence
with Ankeny NFIP adoption dated 16-May-1983.



175.05   DELETIONS.



The following are deleted from the IBC and are of no force or effect in this
chapter:



Subsection 423.4 Group E Occupancies (Storm Shelters)



Section 3109 Swimming Pool Enclosures and Safety Devices



175.06   SECTIONS 101.1 AND R101.1 AMENDED - TITLE.  Sections 101.1,
Title, of the IBC and R101.1, Title, of the IRC, are hereby deleted and there
is enacted in lieu thereof the following sections:



   Section 101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Building Code, hereinafter known as “this code.”



   Section R 101.1 Title.  These provisions shall be known as the Ankeny
Residential Code for One- and Two – Family Dwellings, and shall be cited as
such and will be referred to herein as “this code.”



175.07   SECTION 101.4 AMENDED - - REFERENCED CODES. 



Section 101.4, Referenced Codes, of the IBC, is hereby amended by the
following subsections:



   Section 101.4.1 Gas.  Strike International and insert in lieu thereof
Ankeny.



   Section 101.4.2 Mechanical.  Strike International and insert in lieu
thereof Ankeny.



   Section 101.4.3 Plumbing.  Strike International and insert in lieu
thereof Ankeny.



   Section 101.4.4 Property Maintenance.  Strike International Property
Maintenance and insert in lieu thereof Ankeny Property Maintenance and
Housing.



   Section 101.4.5 Fire Prevention.  Strike International and insert in
lieu thereof Ankeny.



   Section 101.4.6 Energy.  Strike International and insert in lieu
thereof Ankeny.



   Section 101.4.7 Existing Buildings.  Strike International and insert
in lieu thereof Ankeny.



175.08   SECTION 101.4.6 AMENDED AND R101.3.1 ADDITION - - ENERGY. 



Section 101.4.6, Energy, of the IBC, is hereby amended by deleting said
sections and inserting in lieu thereof the following section and Section
R101.3.1, Intent, of the IRC, is hereby established by adding the following
section:



   Section 101.4.6 Energy and Section R101.3.1 Intent.  The provisions of
the International Energy Conservation Code as currently adopted and amended
by the Iowa State Building Code Bureau shall apply to all matters governing
the design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency. 
Administration shall be as prescribed in “this code’ and these
regulations shall be known as the Ankeny Energy Code.  Construction or work
for which a permit is required shall be subject to 3rd party inspections. 
The Building Official is authorized to accept reports of approved inspection
agencies, provided such agencies satisfy the requirements as to
qualifications and reliability.  Any portion that does not comply shall be
corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized
by the Building Official.



175.09   SECTIONS 103.1 AND R103.1 AMENDED - - CREATION OF ENFORCEMENT
AGENCY.



Section 103.1, Creation of enforcement agency, of the IBC and R103.1,
Creation of enforcement agency, of the IRC, are hereby amended by adding the
following paragraph:



   Sections 103.1 and R103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator  The term
Building Official is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning
Administrator, who shall be designated by the Planning & Building Director
and shall hereinafter be referred to as Code Official and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code
Official.  The Code Official when so appointed, shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the Building Code; the Mechanical code; the Housing code; the
Plumbing code; the Gas Code, the Energy code, the Electrical code, the Zoning
code and the Fire code of the city. The Code Official shall have authority to
file a complaint in any court of competent jurisdiction charging a person
with the violation of this title.  The Code Official shall have whatever
additional duties the Director of Planning & Building may prescribe.



175.10   SUBSECTIONS 105.1 AND R105.1 ADDITION - (PERMITS) REQUIRED.



Sections 105.1, Required, of the IBC and R105.1, Required, of the IRC, are
hereby amended by adding the following to said sections: 



   Sections 105.1 and R105.1 Platting required.  A building permit shall
not be issued unless the land upon which the proposed work is to be done is
platted pursuant to the provisions of the subdivision regulations.



A building permit shall not be issued permitting the construction of any
building or other structure on any lot designated on any plat as an outlot,
without such lot being replatted in accordance with the provisions of the
subdivision regulations.  Such platting may be waived by the city council if
that body determines that no portion of the land is needed for public
purposes or if that portion needed for public purposes, as determined by the
council, is dedicated to the city; provided further, that such platting may
be waived by the zoning administrator if the requested building permit is for
one of the following purposes:



   1. Any accessory structure or addition for a one or two family
residence;



   2. The removal, repair or alteration of a structure on unplatted
premises, provided that there is no change in the use classifications of such
structure;



   3. The term "alteration" shall be deemed to mean any change or
modification of a structure that does not serve to increase the size of the
original structure by more than ten percent.



175.11   SECTIONS 105.2 AND R105.2 AMENDED - WORK EXEMPT FROM PERMIT.



Sections 105.2, Work exempt from permit, of the IBC and R105.2, Work exempt
from permit, of the IRC are hereby amended by deleting the following items
and adding a sentence to said subsections as follows:



   Sections 105.2 and R105.2  Work Exempt From Permit



   Section 105.2 Building - Item #1   Detached structures not exceeding
120 sq. ft.      Delete



   Section 105.2 Building - Item #2   Fences not over 7 feet
high      Delete



   Section 105.2 Building - Item #6   Sidewalks and
driveways      Delete



   Section 105.2 Building - Item #9   Prefabricated swimming
pools   Delete



   Section 105.2 Building - Item #10   Shade cloth
structures      Delete



   Section R105.2 Building - Item #1   Detached structures not
exceeding 200 sq. ft.      Delete



   Section R105.2 Building - Item # 2   Fences not over 7 feet
high      Delete



   Section R105.2 Building - Item #5    Sidewalks and
driveways      Delete



   Section R105.2 Building - Item #7    Prefabricated swimming
pools   Delete



   Section R105.2 Building - Item #10    Decks not exceeding 200 sq.
ft.   Delete



Exemption from permit requirements of this chapter shall not preclude
requirements for permitting of plumbing, electrical and mechanical
installations and systems or compliance with Ankeny Code of Ordinances.



175.12   SECTIONS 105.5 AND R105.5 AMENDED - EXPIRATION.



Sections 105.5. Expiration, of the IBC and R105.5, Expiration, of the IRC,
are hereby amended by deleting said sections and inserting in lieu thereof
the following:



   Sections 105.5 and R105.5 12 Month Expiration  Every permit issued
under the provisions of this Code shall expire twelve (12) months from the
date of issue, unless the application is accompanied by a construction
schedule of specific longer duration, in which instance the permit may be
issued for the term of the construction schedule, with approval of the Code
Official.  If the work has not been completed by the expiration date of the
permit, no further work shall be done until the permit shall have been
renewed by the owner or his or her agent and by payment of the renewal fee as
established by Resolution of the City Council, and provided no changes have
been made in plans or location.  Upon approval, permits may be extended for
no more than two periods not exceeding 180 days each. 



175.13   SECTIONS 105.6.1 AND R105.6.1 ADDITION -REVOCATION OF PERMIT.



Sections 105.6.1 Revocation of Permit, of the IBC and R105.6.1, Revocation of
Permit, of the IRC, are hereby established by adding the following sections:



   Sections 105.6.1 and R105.6.1 Revocation of Permit  It is the
responsibility of the permit holder to schedule the required inspections and
obtain final approval.  Failure to schedule the required inspections and
receive approval of work authorized by the permit before covering said work
or at completion shall result in revocation of the permit and void any
associated approvals granted by the City.  This failure shall also equate to
working without a permit in violation of City ordinance and no future permits
shall be issued to any person or company who has outstanding violations of
this code or any other laws or ordinances of the City.  Failure to contact
the City for any inspection or follow-up prior to expiration of a permit
shall be deemed a violation of this code section.  Failure to contact the
City for any inspection or follow-up prior to expiration of a Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy shall also be deemed a violation of this code
section.  Allowing occupancy of a structure, for which a person or company
holds a building permit, prior to or without a valid Certificate of Occupancy
(temporary or final) shall be deemed a violation of this code section and no
future permits shall be issued to any person or company who has outstanding
violations of this code or any other laws or ordinances of the City.



175.14   SECTIONS 109.2.1 AND R108.2.1 ADDITION - PLAN REVIEW FEES.



Sections 109.2.1, Plan review fees, of the IBC, and R108.2.1, Plan review
fees, of the IRC, are hereby established by adding the following sections:



   Sections 109.2.1 and R108.2.1  Plan review fees  Fees for all plan
reviews shall be as set forth and established by resolution of the City
Council.  All such fees shall be paid in accordance with the terms and
requirements of such resolution or as the same may be amended by the City
Council from time to time.



175.15   SECTIONS 109.4 AND R108.6 ADDITION - WORK COMMENCING BEFORE
PERMIT ISSUANCE.



Sections 109.4, Work commencing before permit issuance, of the IBC, and
R108.6, Work commencing before permit issuance, of the IRC, are hereby
established by adding the following sentence after said sections:



   Sections 109.4 and R108.6  Work commencing before permit issuance 
Said fee shall be 100 percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the
required permit fees. 



175.16   SECTION R110.1 AMENDED - USE AND OCCUPANCY.



Section R110.1, Use and occupancy, of the IRC, is hereby amended by deleting
exception #2 - Accessory buildings or structures.



175.17   SECTION 112 AND R111 ADDITION - UNDERGROUND UTILITY INSTALLATION.



Sections 112.4, Service Utilities, of the IBC, and R111.4, Service Utilities,
of the IRC, are hereby established by adding the following subsections:



   Sections 112.4 and R111.4  Underground utility installation  All
electrical service lines not exceeding four hundred eighty volts and all
telephone and cablevision service lines, as well as other utility lines
serving any new building or structure, including signs and billboards,
requiring permanent electrical service shall be placed underground unless a
waiver from such is approved by the city engineer.



The provisions of this section shall not apply to existing buildings or
additions to such buildings. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply
to temporary service when defined as such by the utility company.



175.18   SECTION R202 AMENDED - DEFINITIONS.



Section 202, Definitions, of the IBC, and Section R202 Definitions, of the
IRC, are hereby amended by deleting the definition of accessory structure,
swimming pool and townhouse and inserting in lieu thereof the following: 



   Section 202  Swimming Pool  Any structure intended for swimming,
recreational bathing or wading that is capable of containing water over 24
inches deep.  This includes in-ground, above-ground and on-ground pools; hot
tubs; spas and fixed-in-place wading pools, but excludes manmade lakes or
ponds created through the collection of storm water or drainage runoff.



   Section R202  Accessory Structure  Accessory structures shall be
defined as and shall conform to applicable zoning requirements and shall
include but not be limited to structures and equipment with a fixed location
on the ground, including wind energy systems, generators and equipment
shelters.



   Section R202  Townhouse  A single-family dwelling unit constructed in
groups of three or more attached units in which each unit extends from
foundation to roof.  Townhouse groups of more than twelve units shall have a
yard or public way on at least two sides.



175.19   TABLE R301.2(1) AMENDED - CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA.



Table R301.2(1), Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria, of the IRC, is
hereby amended by modifying said table as follows:



Table R301.2(1), Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria



 


Ground



Snow Load

 

Wind Design

 

Seismic Design Category

 

Subject To Damage From

 

Winter

 

Flood Hazards

 


 





Speed MPH

 

Topographic Effects

 

Weathering

 

Frost Line Depth

 

Termite

 

Design Temp

 

Ice Barrier Req'd.

 

NFIP Adoption

 

Air Freezing Index

 

Mean Annual Temp.




*30 PSF

 

115 (51)

 

NO

 

A

 

Severe

 

42"

 

No

 

-5º F

 

Yes

 

16-May-83

 

1833

 

48.6










*n – see 175.63 – minimum flat roof snow load 24 PSF




175.20   SECTION R302.1 AMENDED - EXTERIOR WALLS.



Section R302.1, Exterior walls, of the IRC, is hereby amended by deleting all
exceptions and inserting in lieu thereof the following exception:



   Section R302.1 Exterior walls exception #1  Accessory buildings less
than six feet (6’) from a dwelling and/or less than 3 feet from a property
line shall be provided with 5/8” “X” fire code sheetrock or equivalent
throughout the interior, including the walls and ceiling.  Any accessory
structure opening(s) in wall(s) parallel to and less than six feet (6’)
from dwelling unit wall(s) shall be fire rated in accordance with this code.



175.21   R302.3 AMENDED - - TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.



Section R302.3 Two-family dwellings, of the IRC, is hereby amended by
deleting said section and exceptions and inserting in lieu thereof the
following section:



   R302.3 Two-family dwellings For purposes of fire-resistive separation,
two-family dwelling units shall be considered as townhouses and shall be
constructed in accordance with R302.2



Exception 2 deleted



175.22   SECTION R302.6 AMENDED - - DWELLING/GARAGE FIRE SEPARATION.



Section R302.6, Dwelling/garage fire separation, of the IRC, is hereby
amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following
section:



   Section R302.6 Dwelling/garage fire separation  The garage shall be
separated throughout as required by Table R302.6.  Openings in garage walls
shall comply with section R302.5.



175.23   SECTION TABLE R302.6 AMENDED - DWELLING/GARAGE SEPARATION.



Table R302.6 Dwelling/Garage Separation, of the IRC, is hereby amended by
modifying said table as follows:



Table R302.6, Dwelling/garage separation



 


Separation

 

Material



From the residence & attics – common wall

with garage
 
5/8” “X” fire code sheetrock or equivalent applied to the garage side


From all habitable rooms above the garage
 
5/8” “X” fire code sheetrock or equivalent – throughout garage


Structures supporting floor/ceiling assemblies

used for separation required by this section
 
5/8” “X” fire code sheetrock or equivalent – throughout garage


Garages located less than six feet (6’) from a dwelling unit(s) on the same
lot
 
5/8” “X” fire code sheetrock or equivalent – throughout garage



 



175.24   AMENDED - - FIRE PROTECTION OF FLOORS.



Section R302.13, Fire Protection of Floors, of the IRC, shall be of no force
or effect until January 1, 2018, at which time Section R302.13, Fire
Protection of Floors, of the IRC, shall be enforceable, including the
following amendment:



   Section R302.13, Fire Protection of Floors, of the IRC, is hereby
amended by deleting exception 4 and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



      Section R302.13 exception 4 Approved floor assemblies
demonstrating equivalent fire performance by an approved testing company
showing length and time duration for exposure to fire. It shall be defined by
performance equivalent to 26 minutes using ASTM E119 standard fire endurance
testing with a superimposed load simulating a maximum load condition (i.e.
100% design load).



175.25   SECTION R303.3 AMENDED - BATHROOMS.



Section R303.3, Bathrooms, of the IRC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following section and also by
adding the following exception:



   Section R303.3 Bathrooms  Bathrooms shall be provided with a
mechanical ventilation system.  The minimum ventilation rates shall be 50
cfm for intermittent ventilation or 20 cfm for continuous ventilation. 
Ventilation air from the space shall be exhausted directly to the outside.



   Exception:  Toilet rooms containing only a water closet and/or
lavatory may be provided with a recirculating fan. 



175.26   SECTION R305.1.1 AMENDED - - BASEMENTS.



Section R305.1.1 Basements, of the IRC, is amended deleting the exception and
inserting in lieu thereof:



   Section R305.1.1 exception  Existing basements not having a height as
specified in this section are allowed to be finished with a ceiling height
that is not decreased more than the minimal measurement created by applying a
finished ceiling of gypsum board or acoustical ceiling tiles.



175.27   SECTIONS 1030.4 AND R310.1.1 AMENDED - OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS.



Sections 1029.4, Operational Constraints, of the IBC and R310.1.1,
Operational constraints, of the IRC, are hereby amended by adding the
following:



   Sections 1030.4 and R310.1.1 Operational Constraints  The net clear
opening dimensions required by this section shall be obtained by the normal
operation of the emergency escape and rescue opening from the inside and
shall not require the removal of a sash or other component of the emergency
escape and rescue opening.



175.28   SECTION R310.2.2 ADDITION - - WINDOW SILL HEIGHT. 



Section R310.2.2 of the IRC, is hereby amended by adding the following
exception:



   Section R310.2.2 exception A landing may be provided to meet the
maximum sill height of forty-four (44) inches above the floor or landing
provided. The landing shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches wide, not
less than twelve (12) inches out from the exterior wall, and not more than
twenty-four (24) inches in height. The landing shall be permanently affixed
to the floor below or the wall under the window it serves.



175.29   SECTION R310.2.4 AMENDED - - EMERGENCY ESCAPE WINDOWS UNDER DECKS
AND PORCHES.



Section R310.4, Emergency escape windows under decks and porches, of the IRC,
is hereby amended by adding a new sentence following this section:



   Section R310.4 Emergency escape windows under decks and porches
Cantilever areas of all construction elements shall be regulated in
accordance with this section.



175.30   SECTION R310.6 AMENDED - - ALTERATIONS OR REPAIRS OF EXISTING
BASEMENTS.



Section R310.6 Alterations or Repairs of Existing Basements, of the IRC, is
hereby amended by deleting said section and exception and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:



   Section R310.6 Alterations or Repairs of Existing Basements An
emergency escape and rescue opening is required in all existing basements
undergoing alterations or repairs.



175.31   SECTION R311.3.2 AMENDED - - FLOOR ELEVATIONS FOR OTHER EXTERIOR
DOORS.



Section R311.3.2 Floor Elevations for Other Exterior Doors of the IRC is
amended by deleting the exception and inserting in lieu thereof:



   Section R311.3.2 exception A top landing is not required where a
stairway of not more than four risers is located on the exterior side of a
door, provided the door does not swing over the stairway.



175.32   SECTION R311.7.5.1 AMENDED - RISERS.



Section R311.7.5.1, Riser height, of the IRC, is hereby amended by adding the
following exceptions:



   Section R311.7.5.1 Riserheight exception 3 The maximum riser height
shall be 7 3/4 inches.  The riser height shall be measured vertically
between leading edges of the adjacent treads.  The greatest riser height
within any flight of stairs shall not exceed the smallest by more than 3/8
inch, except at the top or bottom riser of any interior stair where this
dimension may deviate by a maximum of 1 inch.  In no case shall the risers
exceed the maximum height of 7 3/4 inches. 



   Section R311.7.5.1 Profile exception 4 The opening between adjacent
treads is not limited on exterior stairs serving individual dwelling units.



175.33   SECTION R311.7.8.2 ADDITION - CONTINUITY.



Section R311.7.8.2, Continuity, of the IRC, is hereby amended by adding the
following exception:



   Section R311.7.8.2 Continuity exception 3  Handrails within a dwelling
unit or serving an individual dwelling unit shall be permitted to be
interrupted at one location in a straight stair when the rail terminates into
a wall or ledge and is offset and immediately continues.



175.34   SECTION R313.1 AMENDED - TOWNHOUSE AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER
SYSTEMS.



Section R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler system, of the IRC, is
hereby amended by adding the following exceptions (existing exception 1
remains unchanged):



   Section R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems.  Exceptions:



   2.  An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required where additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that
do not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.



   3.  Townhouse structures that contain eight (8) or less dwelling units.



   4.  Townhouse structures less than eighteen thousand (18,000) square
feet floor space, exclusive of any garages.



175.35   SECTION R313.2 AMENDED - ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS AUTOMATIC
FIRE SYSTEMS.



Section R313.2 One- and two-family automatic fire sprinkler systems, of the
IRC, is hereby amended by adding the following exception:



   Section R313.2  One- and two-family automatic fire sprinkler systems
exception 2  Dwelling units in which the gross square footage of the
dwelling space(s), including all floor levels whether finished or unfinished
and all basement areas whether finished or unfinished (exclusive of attached
garage area), does not exceed 8,000 square feet.



175.36   SECTION R403.1.4.1 -AMENDED - FROST PROTECTION.



Section R403.1.4.1, of the IRC, is hereby amended by deleting all existing
exceptions and inserting in lieu thereof the following exception #1 and
exception #2: 



   Section R403.1.4.1  Frost protection exception 1 Detached garages of
light frame wood construction of  1,010 square feet or less in size and
detached garages of 400 square feet or less in size of other than light frame
wood construction and more than 10 feet from a dwelling or attached garage
may be provided with a floating slab.  The floating slab shall include a
thickened slab edge of a minimum twelve (12) inches thick.  Six inches of
the thickened slab shall be below grade and six inches shall be above
finished grade. The bottom portion of the thickened slab area shall be twelve
(12) by twelve (12) inches.  Two #4 rebar shall be placed within the
thickened edge continuous around the perimeter of the slab.  Floors shall be
of Portland cement concrete not less than 4 inches thick.  Garages areas
shall have all sod and/or debris removed prior to installation of said
floor. 



   Section R403.1.4.1 Frost protection exception 2 Decks not supported by
a dwelling and not greater than thirty inches (30”) above grade plane need
not be provided with footings that extend below the frost line.



175.37   SECTION R404.1 AMENDED - CONCRETE AND MASONRY FOUNDATION WALLS.



Section R404.1, Concrete and masonry foundation walls, of the IRC, is hereby
amended by adding the following paragraph:



   Section R404.1 Concrete and masonry foundation walls lateral support
Prior to backfill and prior to a poured in place floor slab to provide bottom
lateral support the following may be provided (1) a full depth (minimum
1-1/2”) nominal 2” x 4” keyway may be formed into the footings to
secure the bottom of the foundation wall -or- (2) 36” long vertical # 4
rebar may be embedded a minimum of 6” into the footings not to exceed 7’
o.c. spacing



175.38   SECTIONS 1807.1.5.1 AND R404.1.3.2.3 ADDITION - FOUNDATION WALLS
FOR CONVENTIONAL LIGHT FRAME WOOD CONSTRUCTION.



Sections 1807.1.5.1, Foundation Walls For Conventional Light Frame Wood
Construction, of the IBC and R404.1.3.2.3, Foundation Walls For Conventional
Light Frame Wood Construction, of the IRC, are hereby established by adding
the following sections and table:




   Sections 1807.1.5.1 and R404.1.3.2.3 Foundation Walls for Conventional
Light Frame Wood Construction As an alternate to the requirements of
respective codes the following Table ‘Foundation Walls for Conventional
Light Frame Construction’ may be used:



Table - ‘Foundation Walls for Conventional Light Frame Construction’



 




Height of Foundation Wall (Net measured from top of basement slab to top of
foundation wall)*

 

Thickness of Foundation Walls

 

Reinforcement type and placement within Foundation Wall**

 

Reinforcement type and placement within Foundation Wall**


(maximum 12’ span between corners and supporting cross walls)
 

Type of Mortar




Unit



Gross
 
Net
 
Concrete
 
Masonry
 
Concrete
 

Masonry

 

Masonry



8
 
7’ 8”
 
7 ½”
 
8”
 
½” horizontal bars, placement in the middle, and near the top & bottom –
½” bars @ 6’ max. vertically
 
0.075 square inch bar 8’ o.c. vertically in fully grouted cells. If block
is 12” nominal thickness, may be unreinforced.
 
Type M or S. Grout & Mortar shall meet provisions of Chapter 21 IBC


9
 
8’ 8”
 
8”
 
See Chapter 18 IBC
 
½” bars 2’ o.c. horizontally & 20” vertically o.c.


(5/8” bars 2’ o.c. horizontally & 30” vertically o.c.)

 
See Chapter 18 IBC
 
Same as above


10
 
9’ 8”
 
8”
 
See Chapter 18 IBC
 
See Chapter 18 IBC
 
Same as above


*Concrete floor slab to be nominal 4”. If such floor slab is not provided
prior to backfill, provide 1) 36” vertical #4 rebar embedded in the footing
@ maximum 7’ O.C. spacing -and/or- 2) full depth nominal 2”depth  x
4”width keyway in footing


** All reinforcement bars shall meet ASTM A6175 grade 40 minimum and be
deformed.  Placement of bars shall be in center of wall and meet the
provisions of 18, 19, and 21 of the International Building Code.


NOTE: Cast in place concrete shall have a compressive strength of 3,000 lbs @
28 days. Footings shall contain continuous reinforcement of 2 – ½”
diameter rebar throughout. Placement of reinforcement and concrete shall meet
the requirements of Chapter 19 of the International Building Code.


NOTE: Material used for backfilling shall be carefully placed granular soil
of average or high permeability and shall be drained with an approved
drainage system as prescribed in Section 1805.4 of the International Building
Code. Where soils containing a high percentage of clay, fine silt or similar
materials of low permeability or expansive soils are encountered or where
backfill materials are not drained or an unusually high surcharge is to be
placed adjacent to the wall, a specially designed wall shall be required.


Note: Foundation plate or sill anchorage may be installed in accordance with
the respective codes as applicable.









175.39   SECTION R405 ADDITION - FOUNDATION DRAINAGE.



Section R405, Foundation Drainage, of the IRC, is hereby amended by adding a
new section as follows:



   Section R405.3 Sump Pumps Footing drains and drainage systems shall be
discharged to a sump pump plumbed to a discharge system separated from the
sanitary sewer and in accordance with the standard specifications adopted by
the City Council.  Exceptions may be granted by the Code Official in
accordance with said engineering standards based on local conditions as
determined by the Ankeny Public Works Department/Development Engineering
Division or Storm Water Coordinator.



175.40   SECTION 406.3.4.1 AMENDED - - DWELLING UNIT SEPARATION. 



Section 406.3.4.1, Separation, of the IBC, is hereby amended by deleting
section #1 and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 406.3.4.1 Dwelling Unit Separation  The private garage shall
be separated from the dwelling unit and its attic area by means of minimum
5/8-inch type “X” fire code gypsum board or equivalent applied to the
garage side.  Where the separation is a floor-ceiling assembly, the
structure supporting the separation shall also be protected by not less than
5/8-inch type “X” fire code gypsum board or equivalent throughout. 
Garages beneath habitable rooms shall be separated by not less than 5/8-inch
type “X” fire code gypsum board or equivalent throughout.  Door openings
between a private garage and the dwelling unit shall be equipped with either
solid wood doors or solid or honeycomb core steel doors not less than 1
3/8” thick, or doors in compliance with 716.5.3.  Openings from a private
garage directly into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be
permitted.  Doors shall be self-closing and self-latching.



175.41   SECTION 501.2 AMENDED - - ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION.



Section 501.2, Address Identification, of the IBC, is hereby amended by
amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following
section and table:



   501.2 Address identification.



   New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers,
building numbers or approved building identification placed in a position
that is plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the
property. These numbers shall be black or white and shall contrast with their
background. Where required by the fire code official, address numbers shall
be provided in greater dimension or additional approved locations to
facilitate emergency response. Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers or
alphabetical letters. Numbers and letters shall be a minimum height and a
minimum stroke width as dictated by Table 505.1. Where access is by means of
a private road and the building cannot be viewed from the public way, a
monument, pole or other sign or means shall be used to identify the
structure. Address numbers shall be maintained.



   Table 501.2
   Minimum Height and Stroke Width a,b







   a Exterior suite identification, minimum height shall be 4 inches and
stroke width shall be ½ inch.



   b Interior suite identification, minimum height shall be 2 inches and
stroke width shall be ¼ inch.



175.42   SECTION R506.2.4 ADDITION - - REINFORCEMENT SUPPORT.



Section R506.2.4, of the IRC, Reinforcement support is hereby amended by
addition of the following exception:



   Section R506.2.4 Reinforcement support exception 1 Non-structural slabs



175.43   SECTION R602.7.5 AMENDED - -SUPPORTS FOR HEADERS.



Section R602.7.5, Of the IRC, Supports for Headers is hereby amended by
deleting Table R602.7.5 and inserting in lie thereof the following Table
R602.7.5



Table R602.7.5
Minimum Number Of Full Height Studs At Each End of Headers In Exterior Walls



 




Maximum Header Span (feet)

 

Where Jack Studs Provided

 

Framing Anchors in Lieu of Jack Studs




4

 

1

 

1




6

 

1

 

2




8

 

1

 

2




10

 

2

 

3




12

 

2

 

3




14

 

2

 

3




16

 

2

 

4




18

 

2

 

4





 



175.44   SECTION 903.2.11.1.3 AMENDED - - BASEMENTS.



Section 903.2.11.1.3, Basements, of the IBC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 903.2.11.1.3 Basements Where any portion of a basement is
located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) from openings required by Section
903.2.11.1, the basement shall be equipped throughout with an approved
automatic sprinkler system.



175.45   SECTION 903.4.2 AMENDED - - ALARMS.



Section 903.4.2, Alarms, of the IBC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 903.4.2 Alarms An approved weather proof audible device
suitable for outdoor use with 110 candela visual signal shall be connected to
every automatic sprinkler system. Such sprinkler water-flow alarm devices
shall be activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler
of the smallest orifice size installed in the system. Alarm devices shall be
provided on the exterior of the building in an approved location. Where a
fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the automatic sprinkler system
shall actuate the building fire alarm system.



175.46   SECTION 907.1.4 ADDITION - - FACP (Fire Alarm Control Panels). 



Section 907.1.4, FACP) Fire Alarm Control Panels) is hereby established by
adding the following section and exception:



   Section 907.1.4 FACP (Fire Alarm Control Panels) Each building shall
have no more than 1 FACP. Installation of fire alarm panel shall be not
exceed six feet in height measured from the floor to the top of the unit.



   Exception: Suppression system releasing panels are not required to meet
the height requirement or the limitation in the number of panels.



175.47   SECTION 907.6.6 AMENDED - - MONITORING.



Section 907.6.6, Monitoring, of the IBC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following section and exception:



   Section 907.6.6 Monitoring Fire alarm systems required by this chapter
or by the International Building Code shall be monitored by a central station
approved and listed under UL 827 in accordance with NFPA 72.



   Exception: Monitoring station is not required for automatic sprinkler
and fire alarm systems in one- and two- family dwellings.



175.48   SECTION G2414.5.3 (403.5.4) AMENDED - - CORRUGATED STAINLESS
STEEL TUBING.



Section G2414.5.3 (403.5.4) Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing, of the IRC, is
hereby amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:



   Section G2414.5.3 (403.5.4) Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing Arc
resistant corrugated stainless steel tubing shall be listed in accordance
with ANSI LC 1 (Optional Section 5.16)/CSA 6.26.



175.49   SECTION G2415.2 (404.2) AMENDED - - CSST.



Section G2415.2 (404.2) CSST, of the IRC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section G2415.2 (404.2) CSST.  Only CSST with an Arc Resistant Jacket
or Covering System listed in accordance with ANSI LC-1 (Optional Section
5.16)/CSA 6.26-2016 shall be installed in accordance with the terms of its
approval, the conditions of listing, the manufactures instructions and this
code including electrical bonding requirements in Section G2411. CSST shall
not be used for through wall penetrations from the point of delivery of the
gas supply to the inside of the structure.  CSST shall not be installed in
locations where subject to physical damage unless protected in an approved
manner.



175.50   SECTION P2603.5 AMENDED - - FREEZING.



Section P2603.5 Freezing, of the IRC, is hereby amended by deleting the last
sentence of said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section P2603.5 Freezing Exterior water supply system piping shall be
installed not less than sixty (60) inches below grade.



175.51   SECTION P2603.5.1 AMENDED - - SEWER DEPTH.



Section P2603.5.1 Sewer Depth, of the IRC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section P2603.5.1 Sewer Depth Building sewers shall be a minimum of
forty-eight (48) inches below grade.



175.52   SECTION 1009.2 ADDITION - - CONTINUITY AND COMPONENTS.



Section 1009.2, Continuity and Components, Of the IBC, is hereby amended by
adding the following #11 to said section:



   Section 1009.2 Continuity and Components #11 Components of exterior
walking surfaces shall be concrete, asphalt or other approved hard surface.



175.53   SECTION 1009.8 ADDITION - - TWO-WAY COMMUNICATION.



Section 1009.8, Two-way Communication, of the IBC, is hereby amended by
adding the following exception:



   Section 1009.8 exception 6  Two-way communication systems are not
required for elevators that serve two story buildings designed to meet the
provisions of section IBC 712.1.9, Two-story Openings and IBC 1019,  Exit
Access Stairways and Ramps.



175.54   SECTION 1010.1.6 ADDITION - - LANDINGS AT DOORS.



Section 1010, Doors, Gates and Turnstiles, of the IBC, is hereby amended by
adding the following section:



   Section 1010.1.6.1 Landings at Doors for landings required by Section
1010.1.6 to be at the same elevation on each side of the door exterior
landings at doors shall be provided with frost protection.



175.55   SECTION 1010.1.9.1 ADDITION - - HARDWARE.



Section 1010.1.9.1 is hereby amended by adding a new sentence following this
section:



   Section 1010.1.9.1 Hardware Thumb turn locks shall not be allowed.



175.56   SECTION 1011.11 AMENDED - - HANDRAILS.



Section 1011.11, Handrails, of the IBC is hereby amended by deleting
exception 4 and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 1011.11 Handrails exception 4 Changes in elevation of four or
more risers within individual units of Group R-2 and R-3 occupancies require
a handrail on at least one side.



175.57   SECTION 1013.1.1 ADDITION - - ADDITIONAL EXIT SIGNS.



Section 1013.1.1, Additional Exit Signs, of the IBC, is hereby established by
adding the following section:



   Section 1013.1.1 Additional Exit Signs Exit signs may be required at
the discretion of the Code Official to clarify an exit or exit access.



175.58   SECTION 1014.4 ADDITION - - (HANDRAIL) CONTINUITY.



Section 1014.4, Continuity, of the IBC, is hereby amended by adding the
following exception:



   Section 1014.4 Continuity exception 6   Handrails within a dwelling
unit or serving an individual dwelling unit of groups R-2 and R-3 shall be
permitted to be interrupted at one location in a straight stair when the rail
terminates into a wall or ledge and is offset and immediately continues.



175.59   SECTION 1028.5 ADDITION - - ACCESS TO A PUBLIC WAY.



Section 1028.5, Access to a Public Way, Of the IBC, is hereby amended by
adding the following section:



   Section 1028.5.1 Access to a Public Way Components of exterior walking
surfaces shall be concrete, asphalt or other approved hard surface.



175.60   SECTION 1030.5 - - WINDOW WELLS.



Sections 1030.5, Window Wells, of the IBC,  is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



   Sections 1030.5.3 Window well drainage  All window wells shall be
provided with approved drainage.



175.61   CHAPTER 13 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CHAPTER 11 [RE] AMENDED - -
ENERGY EFFICIENCY.



Chapter 13, Energy Efficiency, of the IBC and Chapter 11 [RE], Energy
Efficiency, of the IRC, are hereby amended by deleting said chapters and
inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Chapter 13 Energy Efficiency (IBC) and Chapter 11 (IRC).  The
provisions of the International Energy Code as currently adopted and amended
by the Iowa State Building Code Bureau shall apply to all matters governing
the design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency. 
Administration shall be as prescribed in “this code’ and these
regulations shall be known as the Ankeny Energy Code.



175.62   SECTION 1405.14 ADDITION - - VINYL SIDING.



Section 1405.14, Vinyl Siding, of the IBC, is hereby amended by adding a new
section as follows:



   Section 1405.14.2 Water-Resistive Barrier Required An approved
water-resistive barrier shall be provided under all vinyl siding.



175.63   SECTION 1608.2 ADDITION - - GROUND SNOW LOADS.



Section 1608.2, Ground Snow Loads, of the IBC, is hereby amended by adding
the following sentence to said section:



   Section 1608.2 Ground Snow Load  The ground snow load to be used in
determining the design snow load for roofs is hereby established at 30 pounds
per square foot.  Subsequent increases or decreases shall be allowed as
otherwise provided by code, except that the minimum allowable flat roof snow
load may be reduced to not less than 80 percent of the ground snow load.



175.64   SECTION 1612 AMENDED - - FLOOD LOADS.



Section 1612, Flood Loads, of the IBC, is hereby amended by adding the
following sections:



   Section 1612.1.1 General Floodplain Construction Standards The
following standards are established for construction occurring within the
one-hundred-year flood elevation:



   A. All structures shall:



   1. Be adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure;



   2. Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and



   3. Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.



   B. Residential buildings: All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a
minimum of one foot above the one-hundred-year flood level. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
foot above the one-hundred-year flood level and extend at such elevation at
least eighteen feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon.
Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers) may be allowed, subject to
favorable consideration by the Code Official where existing topography,
street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases,
the methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as
withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.



   C. Nonresidential buildings: All new or substantially improved
nonresidential buildings shall have the first floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the one-hundred-year flood level, or
together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such
a level.



   D. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered
in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are
adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces and other factors associated with the one-hundred-year flood;
that the structure, below the one-hundred-year flood level, is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A record of the
certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which any structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Code Official.



   E. Mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors.
Specific requirements are that:



   1. Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
mobile home with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations for
mobile homes 50 feet or more in length or one such tie for mobile homes less
than 50 feet in length;



   2. Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points for mobile homes 50 feet in
length;



   3. All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred pounds; and



   4. Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.



   F. Mobile homes shall be placed on lots or pads elevated by means of
compacted fill so that the lowest floor of the mobile home will be a minimum
of one foot above the one-hundred-year flood level. In addition, the tie-down
specification of Section 175.04.350 section E must be met and adequate
surface drainage and access for a hauler must be provided.



   G. New mobile homes, expansions to existing mobile homes and mobile
home lots where the repair, reconstruction or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equals or exceeds fifty percent before the repair,
reconstruction or improvement has commenced shall provide:



   1. Lots or pads that have been elevated by means of compacted fill so
that the lowest floor of mobile homes will be a minimum of one-foot above the
one-hundred-year flood level;



   2. Ground anchors for mobile homes.



   H. Storage of materials and equipment that are flammable, explosive or
injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited unless elevated a
minimum of one foot above the one-hundred-year flood level. Other material
and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:



   1. Not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or



   2. Be readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.



   Section 1612.1.2 Special floodway standards.



   The following standards are established for construction occurring
within a designated floodway.



   A. Structures, buildings and sanitary and utility systems, if
permitted, shall meet the applicable general floodplain standards and shall
be constructed or aligned to present the minimum possible resistance to flood
flows.



   B. Buildings, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential and
shall not be for human habitation.



175.65   SECTION 1612.3 AMENDED - - ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.



Section 1612.3, Establishment of Flood Hazard Areas, of the IBC, is hereby
amended by inserting the following:



   Section 1612.3 Establishment of Flood Hazard Areas 



   Insert Jurisdiction: City of Ankeny



   Insert Date:  16-May-83



175.66   SECTION 1809.5 ADDITION - - FROST PROTECTION.



Section 1809.5, Frost Protection, of the IBC, is hereby amended by adding the
following exception 4:



   Exception 4 Detached garages, accessory to Group R-2 and R-3
occupancies, 1010 square feet or less in size of light frame wood
construction and detached garages of 400 square feet or less in size of other
than light frame wood construction and more than 10 feet from a dwelling or
attached garage may be provided with a floating slab whichshall include a
thickened slab edge of a minimum 8 inches thick and tapered or squared from a
width of 6 inches to 12 inches and have floors of Portland cement concrete
not less than 4 inches thick.  Garage areas shall have all sod and/or debris
removed prior to installation of said floor.



175.67   TABLE 2902.1 AMENDED - - MINIMUM NUMBER OF REQUIRED PLUMBING
FIXTURES.



Table 2902.1 Minimum Number of Required Plumbing Fixtures, of the IBC, is
hereby amended by deleting footnote ‘e’ and inserting in lieu thereof the
following.



   Footnote ‘e’  For business occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than thirty (30) and mercantile occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than one hundred (100), service sinks shall not be required.



175.68   SECTION 2902.6 AMENDED - - SMALL OCCUPANCIES.



Section 2902.6, of the IBC, is hereby amended by deleting said section and
inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 2902.6 Small Occupancies  Water dispensers in accessible
locations and within accessible reach ranges may be substituted for the
initial drinking fountains in business occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than thirty (30) and mercantile occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than one hundred (100). (re: IBC chapter 11, IPC 410.2)



(Chapter 175 - Ord. 1908 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 176
MECHANICAL CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IMC Section


176.01
 
Short Title
 


176.02
 
Adoption of Mechanical Code
 


176.03
 
Amendments, Modification, Additions and Deletions
 


176.04
 
Deletions
 


176.05
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 


176.06
 
Title
 
101.1


176.07
 
General (Building & Zoning Administrator)
 
103.1


176.08
 
Permit Acquisition
 
106.1.1


176.09
 
Permits Not Required
 
106.2


176.10
 
Expiration
 
106.4.3


176.11
 
Retention of Construction Documents
 
106.4.6


176.12
 
Fee Schedule
 
106.5.2


176.13
 
Fee Refunds
 
106.5.3


176.14
 
Violation Penalties
 
108.4


176.15
 
Stop Work orders
 
108.5


176.16
 
Access
 
306.1


176.17
 
Equipment and Appliances On Roofs Or Elevated Structures
 
306.5




 



176.01   SHORT TITLE.



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Mechanical Code, and may be cited
as such, and may be referred to herein as “this chapter.”



176.02   ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE.



The International Mechanical Code 2015 Edition; published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions
as may be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy of the
International Mechanical Code 2015 Edition, as adopted and a copy of this
chapter are on file in the office of the Code Official. 



176.03   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS.



The International Mechanical Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known as the
IMC), is amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 176.04 through 176.17. 



176.04   DELETIONS.



The following are deleted from the IMC and are of no force or effect in this
chapter:  Section 106.1.1 Annual Permit, Section 106.1.2 Annual Permits
Record, Section 106.4.4 Extensions, Section 109 Means of Appeal.



176.05   REFERENCED CODES - - CONFLICTS.



In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and/or
Federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply.



176.06   SECTION 101.1 AMENDED - - TITLE.



Section 101.1, Title, of the IMC, is hereby deleted and there is enacted in
lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Mechanical Code, hereinafter known as “this code.”



176.07   SECTION 103.1 ADDITION - - GENERAL.



Sections 103.1, General, of the IMC, is hereby amended by adding the
following paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator The term Code Official
is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code Official.



176.08   SECTION 106.1.1 ADDITION - - PERMIT ACQUISITION.



Section 106.1.1 Permit acquisition, of the IMC, is hereby established by
adding the following:



   Subsection 106.1.1 Permit acquisition 



   1.   Permits are not transferable. Mechanical work performed under
the provisions of this chapter must be done by a contractor meeting the
licensing provisions as set forth by the State of Iowa Plumbing and
Mechanical Systems Board in accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 105. A
responsible person or mechanical professional licensed by the State of Iowa
Plumbing and Mechanical Systems Board as a “Master” may sign and obtain a
permit for the contractor for which they are employed only when said
responsible person or “Master” has provided proof of employment or
written confirmation by said licensed contractor. Any permit required by the
provisions of this code may be revoked by the Code Official upon the
violation of any provision of this code.



   2.   A State of Iowa licensed Mechanical contractor shall be allowed
only to secure permits for himself or herself, or for a single firm or
corporation. When a State of Iowa licensed Mechanical contractor has secured
such a permit, only the employees of such contractor when meeting the
provisions of Iowa Code Chapter 105 shall perform the work for which the
permit was obtained.



   3.   For purposes of this section, an “employee” shall be one
employed by the contractor, firm or corporation for a wage or salary.  A
contractor may be required by the Code Official to show positive evidence as
to the employee status of workers on the job.  Such evidence shall be in the
form of payroll and time records, canceled checks, or other such documents.



   4.   The contractor may also be required to show the agreement or
contract pertaining to the work being questioned as evidence that said
contractor is, in fact, the actual contractor for such work.  Failure or
refusal by the contractor to make available such employee or contractual
records within 24 hours from demand therefor shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of any permit for the work in question.



176.09   SECTION 106.2 ADDITION - - PERMITS NOT REQUIRED.



Section 106.2, Permits not required, of the IMC, is hereby amended by adding
the following #9 to said section:



   Section 106.2 Permits not required 9.  Replacement or relocation of
existing house ventilation fans, bathroom exhaust, dryer vents, window air
conditioners and extension of existing supply and return ductwork.



176.10   SECTION 106.4.3 AMENDED - - EXPIRATION.



Section 106.4.3 Expiration, of the IMC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.4.3 12 Month Expiration  Every permit issued under the
provisions of this Code shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of
issue, unless the application is accompanied by a construction schedule of
specific longer duration, in which instance the permit may be issued for the
term of the construction schedule, with approval of the Code Official.  If
the work has not been completed by the expiration date of the permit, no
further work shall be done until the permit shall have been renewed by the
owner or his or her agent and by payment of the renewal fee as established by
Resolution of the City Council, and provided no changes have been made in
plans or location.  Upon approval, permits may be extended for no more than
two periods not exceeding 180 days each. 



176.11   SECTION 106.4.6 AMENDED - - RETENTION OF CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.



Section 106.4.6, Retention of construction documents, of the IFGC, is hereby
amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.4.6 Retention of Construction Documents One set of
construction documents shall be retained by the Code Official for a period of
not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as
required by state or local law. 



176.12   SECTION 106.5.2 AMENDED - FEE SCHEDULE.



Section 106.5.2 Fee schedule, of the IMC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.5.2 Fee schedule Permits shall not be issued until the
fees, as set forth and established by resolution of the City Council, have
been paid to the City of Ankeny.  An amended permit or a supplemental permit
for additional construction shall not be issued until the permit fee(s) for
the additional work has been paid.



176.13   SECTION 106.5.3 AMENDED- - FEE REFUNDS.



Section 106.5.3, Fee refunds, of the IMC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.5.3 Fee refunds The Code Official is authorized to
establish a refund policy.



176.14   SECTION 108.4 AMENDED - - VIOLATION PENALTIES.



Section 108.4, Violation penalties, of the IMC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 108.4 Violation penalties Any person who violates a provision
of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
erects, installs, alters or repairs mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Code Official, or of a
permit issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.



176.15   SECTION 108.5 AMENDED - - STOP WORK ORDER.



Section 108.5, Stop Work Orders, of the IMC, is hereby amended by deleting
the last sentence of said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.



176.16   SECTION 306.1 ADDITION - - ACCESS.



Section 306.1, Access, of the IMC, is hereby amended by adding the following
to said section:



   Section 306.1 Access Additionally, an unobstructed level working space
at least 30 inches deep and 30 inches wide shall be provided on any side of
equipment where service access is required. Code official or designee may
approve service space reductions prior to equipment installation, provided
manufacturer's instructions are met. (Excluding suspended ceiling)



176.17   SECTION 306.5 ADDITION - - Equipment and Appliances on Roofs Or
Elevated Structures. 



Section 306.5, Equipment and Appliances On Roofs or Elevated Structures, of
the IMC, is hereby amended by adding the following to said section:



   Section 306.5 Equipment and Appliances On Roofs Or Elevated
Structures  If the tenants of a multiple tenant building have, or are
allowed to have, mechanical facilities on or which penetrate the roof, then
code compliant roof access ladders shall be provided for use by all such
tenants and their agents and contractors in a manner that does not require
accessing space under the control of another tenant.



(Chapter 176 - Ord. 1909 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 177
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND HOUSING CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IPMC Section


177.01
 
Short Title
 


177.02
 
Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
 


177.03
 
Amendments, Modification, Additions and Deletions
 


177.04
 
Deletions
 


177.05
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 


177.06
 
Title
 
101.1


177.07
 
Application of Other Codes
 
102.3


177.08
 
Housing Code
 
102.11


177.09
 
General (Building & Zoning Administrator)
 
103.1


177.10
 
Fees
 
103.5


177.11
 
Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance
 
103.6


177.12
 
Fee Refunds
 
103.7


177.13
 
Weeds
 
302.4


177.14
 
Insect Screens
 
304.14


177.15
 
Handrails and Guardrails
 
307.1


177.16
 
Clothes Dryer Transition Duct
 
403.5


177.17
 
Room Area
 
404.4.1


177.18
 
Heat Supply
 
602.3


177.19
 
Occupiable Work Spaces
 
602.4


177.20
 
Receptacles
 
605.2


177.21
 
Emergency Escape Opening
 
702.4


177.22
 
Carbon Monoxide Alarms
 
705


177.23
 
Portable Fire Extinguishers
 
706




 



177.01   SHORT TITLE.



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Property Maintenance and Housing
Code, and may be cited as such, and may be referred to herein as this chapter.



177.02   ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.



The International Property Maintenance Code 2015 Edition; published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions
as may be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy of the
International Property Maintenance Code 2015 Edition, as adopted and a copy
of this chapter are on file in the office of the Code Official. 



177.03   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS.



The International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known
as the IPMC), is amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 177.04 through
177.21.



177.04   DELETIONS.



The following are deleted from the IPMC and are of no force or effect in this
chapter:



   Section - 111 Means of Appeal



177.05   REFERENCED CODES - - CONFLICTS.



In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and
Federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply.



177.06   SECTION 101.1 AMENDED – TITLE.



Section 101.1, Title, of the IPMC is hereby deleted and there is enacted in
lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Property Maintenance and Housing Code, hereinafter known as "this code."



177.07   SECTION 102.3 AMENDED - - APPLICATION OF OTHER CODES.



Section 102.3 Application of other codes, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by
deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 102.3 Application of other codes Repairs, additions or
alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in
accordance with the procedures and provisions, as applicable, of the Ankeny
Building Code, Ankeny Residential Code, Ankeny Mechanical Code, Ankeny Fuel
Gas Code, Ankeny Plumbing Code, Ankeny Fire Code, the Ankeny Electrical Code,
the Ankeny Swimming Pool and Spa Code and the Ankeny Zoning Code.



177.08   SECTION 102.11 ADDITION - - HOUSING CODE.



Section 102.11, Housing Code is hereby established by adding the following
sections:



   102.11.1  Housing Code.  In addition to provisions of the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Ankeny, this section shall be hereafter known
as the  Ankeny Housing Code and may be cited as such and will be referred to
as such in this section. 



   102.11.2  Scope.  The provisions of this section shall be deemed to
apply to all rental dwellings or portions thereof used or designed or
intended to be used for human habitation. All occupancies in existing
buildings may be continued as provided in previously adopted Ankeny Code(s)
except such structures as are found to be substandard as defined in this
code. Where any building or portion thereof is used or intended to be used as
a combination apartment house-hotel, the provisions of this code shall apply
to the separate portions as if they were separate buildings. Every
roominghouse or lodginghouse shall comply with all of the requirements of
this code applicable to dwellings.



   Exceptions:  The provisions of this article do not apply to:



   1.   Building, structures and uses owned, licensed and operated by
any governmental unit or government agency;



   2.   Single family dwellings occupied by the owner, or members of
that owner's immediate family.  Such members are defined as spouse, child,
parent, step-parent, stepchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother,
sister, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandchild, and grandparent;



   3.   Transient shelters and group homes subject to state inspection;



   4.   Residential structures in which ownership passed to a
governmental unit;



   5.   Where a nonresidential business or activity or a state-licensed
or state-approved use occupies a portion of a building and the building
contains premises which would otherwise be subject to this article shall be
and remain applicable to the residential and common or public areas of such
building and premises;



   6.   A duplex, at least one of the units of which is occupied by the
owner and the other unit is occupied by a member of that owner's immediate
family.



   Rentals of thirty one days or less.  No dwelling unit or any portion
thereof as defined in this section shall be rented for a period of thirty one
(31) days or less unless the dwelling unit is owner occupied, with the owner
on site and present at the time of and for the duration of the rental.  All
dwelling units or portions thereof rented for a period of thirty one (31)
days or less shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter, Iowa Code
423A, subject to the exemptions provided therein, and any requirements
imposed by the Iowa department of inspections and appeals.



   102.11.3  Definitions. 



   Rental dwelling:  A rental dwelling is any house, mobile home or
building or portion thereof which is occupied in whole or in part as a home
or residence of one or more human beings, either permanently or transiently,
none of whom are record titleholder. No part of a building hereafter
constructed as or altered into a dwelling may be occupied in whole or in part
for human habitation until the issuance of a certificate by the Code Official
that such part of the dwelling conforms to requirements relative to dwellings
hereafter erected. The certificate shall be issued within fourteen days after
written application therefore if the dwelling at the date of such application
shall be entitled thereto. Such certificate shall hereafter be known as an
occupancy certificate.



   Owner:  For purposes of this section, shall mean any person who has an
interest of record, including any titleholder, contract purchaser, tenant
under a recorded lease or any executor, administrator, trustee, conservator
of other fiduciary, mortgagee or other lien holder and any holder of an
unrecorded interest of which the City has actual knowledge.



   Record Titleholder:  Any person holding title of record by deed,
contract of sale, or judicial determination.  The term 'record titleholder'
shall also include the official representative of a bona fide religious
organization which is titleholder.



   102.11.4  Housing Inspector.  The term Housing Inspector is intended
to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and Code Enforcement
Officers as his or her representatives or designees as housing inspectors. 
Housing Inspectors shall be responsible for the enforcement of this chapter
and may also make any inspections required herein.



   102.11.5 Regular inspections.  Regular inspections of rental dwelling
units shall be required within the timeframe as set forth and established by
resolution of the City Council. 



   102.11.5.1 Regulation and inspection of mobile homes.  Mobile homes
shall be regulated and inspected in accordance with the following
classifications:



   1.   The class of mobile homes denoted as manufactured homes, as
defined in 42 USC 5402(6), shall bear a data plate, serial number and
certification label as required by Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards, Department of Housing and Urban Development (1985) sections
3280.5, 3280.6 and 3280.8, or shall meet the requirements of section 3280.7.;



   2.   Mobile homes manufactured from March 1973 through May 1976
shall bear the seal of the state;



   3.   Mobile homes manufactured prior to March 1973 shall be
inspected for general conformity with the Manufactured Home Construction and
Safety Standards cited in this section as such standards govern fire safety,
plumbing, mechanical and electrical systems and general construction;



   4.   All other mobile homes not included in the classifications in
sections (1) through (3) of this section shall be inspected for general
conformity with the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards cited
in this section as such standards govern fire safety, plumbing, mechanical
and electrical systems and general construction;



   5.   A mobile home showing no evidence of modification and generally
well-maintained as set forth in this article, shall be issued a rental
certificate in the same manner as any other dwelling unit subject to this
article.



   102.11.6 Application for a rental certificate.  Every person, firm or
corporation that offers for rent a dwelling or portion(s) thereof within the
city shall submit to the Planning & Building Department, on forms provided,
an application requesting an inspection for a rental certificate. Such
application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount established by council
resolution. Upon receipt of such application request and fee, the city shall
cause an inspection of the premises and if the same comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the City shall issue a rental certificate. If the
premises fail to comply, the housing inspector shall notify the applicant in
writing, stating the reasons for such noncompliance.



   102.11.7 Additional inspections.  In addition to the inspections
required under Section 102.11.4, the city inspector or inspectors are also
empowered to make similar inspections of all rental units as frequently as
may be necessary and may make inspection at any reasonable time on a written
complaint submitted by the owner, tenant or other person concerned; the city
will make special provisions in the case of elderly and handicapped persons
in order to ensure that their housing facilities are adequate. 



   102.11.8 Inspection fees for additional inspections.  When an
inspection is made at the request of the owner, an inspection fee as provided
in Section 102.11.6 shall be charged. If an inspection is made at the written
request of a tenant and the dwelling is found to be in noncompliance, due to
an omission of the owner, such owner shall be responsible for the
re-inspection fee. No inspection shall be conducted at the request of a
tenant unless the tenant has first submitted his/her complaint, in writing,
to the landlord, no less than ninety-six hours before making such complaint
to the city. If, after a written complaint by the tenant, the dwelling is
found to comply, or if such noncompliance is due to conduct on the part of
the tenant, the tenant shall be liable for the cost of such inspection. If
such costs are not paid by the tenant within thirty days from date of
billing, the city may initiate an action in law or in equity to recover the
same, in which event the tenant shall be liable for reasonable attorney fees.
No fee shall be charged to the owner for such inspection. In the event an
inspection is initiated by the city or at the request of a person other than
the owner or tenant, and if the building is found to be in noncompliance, the
owner shall be liable for such inspection fees. In the event that on the date
of the inspection the building complies with the provisions of the housing
code, no fee shall be charged. In the event that on the date of inspection a
dwelling fails to comply with the provisions of the housing code, which
necessitates additional inspections, the owner shall be liable for the cost
of such re-inspections. All fees required under this chapter shall be paid
prior to the issuance or renewal of the rental certificate.



   102.11.9 Entrance and survey of buildings.  The building inspector and
all inspectors and employees of the building department and such other
persons as may be authorized by the city council may, without fee, except as
provided in Section 102.11.8, enter, examine, make necessary records and
survey all rental dwellings within the city. If entry into the interior
portion of a dwelling unit is required, twenty-four hours' notice to the
tenant shall be given by the city or landlord, unless the tenant of record
has made the request. The owner or his agent or representative and the lessee
and occupant of every rental dwelling and every person having the care and
management of the same shall, at all reasonable times when required by such
officers or persons, give them free access to such rental dwellings and
premises. The owner of a rental dwelling, and his agents and employees, shall
have right of access to such dwellings at reasonable times for the purpose of
bringing about compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any order
issued thereunder. 



   102.11.10 Rental certificate required.  No person shall rent, lease,
let, operate, or otherwise allow the occupancy of any dwelling unless such
person holds a valid rental certificate as is required by this chapter.



   102.11.11 Reinspection.  The rental certificate issued under this
chapter shall expire within the timeframe as set forth and established by
resolution of the City Council, unless sooner revoked or suspended. The owner
shall cause the housing inspector to inspect each such dwelling within sixty
days prior to the expiration date of the certificate so that the Housing
Inspector may determine whether or not a new certificate shall be issued.



   102.11.12 Issuance duration validation.  If the dwelling and premises
are found to comply with the requirements of this chapter, upon
inspection/re-inspection, the housing inspector shall issue a rental
certificate.



   102.11.13 Certificate displayed--Transferability.  Rental certificates
shall be transferable to succeeding owners. They shall be made available by
the owner for the tenant to examine before the dwelling may be rented, leased
or otherwise occupied. 



   102.11.14 Notice on sale of dwelling.  Every person holding a rental
certificate under this chapter shall give notice in writing to the Housing
Inspector within ninety-six hours after having sold, transferred, conveyed or
otherwise disposed of his/her ownership, interest in or control of any
dwelling. This notice shall include the name, contact information and address
of the person succeeding to the ownership or control thereof.



   102.11.15 Violation.  A violation of any provision of this chapter is
a municipal infraction punishable by a civil penalty as set forth in Chapter
4 of the Ankeny Municipal Code of Ordinances.



   102.11.16 Action to enjoin.  In case any dwelling, building or
structure is constructed, altered, converted or maintained in violation of
any provisions of this chapter or of any order or notice of the Housing
Inspector, or in case a nuisance exists in any such dwelling, building or
structure or upon the lot on which it is situated, the Housing Inspector may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful
construction, alteration, conversion or maintenance, to restrain, correct or
abate such violation, nuisance, to prevent the occupation of the dwelling,
building or structure, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct of business in
or about such dwelling or lot.



   102.11.17 Injunction.  In any such action or proceeding, the Housing
Inspector may by a petition duly verified setting forth the facts apply to
the district court for an order granting the relief for which the action or
proceeding is brought, or for an order enjoining any persons from doing or
permitting to be done any work in or upon such dwelling, building, structure
or lot, or from occupying or using the same for any purpose until the entry
of final judgment or order.



   102.11.18 Authority to execute.  In case any notice or order issued by
such Housing Inspector is not complied with, the Housing Inspector may apply
to the district court for an order authorizing the Housing Inspector to
execute and carry out the provisions of the notice or order, to correct any
violation specified in the notice or order or to abate any nuisance in or
about the rental dwelling or building.   



   102.11.19 Eviction--Lease termination.  If the occupant of a dwelling
fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter after due and proper
notice from the Housing Inspector or from the owner, such failure to comply
shall be deemed sufficient cause for the eviction of such occupant by the
owner and for cancellation of a lease.



   102.11.20 Duties of occupant.  It is unlawful for any tenant to
deliberately or recklessly destroy, deface, damage or remove a part of the
premises or to knowingly permit any other person to do so, or to remove,
without permission of the landlord, any furniture or other items of personal
property belonging to the land, or to cause damage resulting in noncompliance
with the codes as adopted by the City of Ankeny. 



   102.11.21 Name, contact information and address of agent filed.  Every
owner, agent or lessee of a rental dwelling shall file with the Planning &
Building Department a notice containing the name, contact information
including email and address of an agent of such dwelling, for the purpose of
receiving service of all notices required by this chapter and also a
description of the property by street number or otherwise as the case may be,
in such manner as will enable the Planning & Building Department easily to
find the same. The name of the owner or lessee may be filed as agent for such
purpose. 



   102.11.22 Notice of actions.  In any action brought by the Housing
Inspector in relation to a dwelling or injunction, vacation of the premises
or abatement of nuisance, or to establish a lien thereon, or to recover a
civil penalty, service of notice shall be in the manner provided by law for
the service of original notices.



   102.11.23 Rent collections.  Rent shall not be recoverable by the
owner or lessee of any dwelling unit which does not comply with the
provisions of this chapter for any period of occupancy which commences on or
after the date that the city gives notice to the owner and tenant of the
provisions of this section. Rent shall not thereupon be recoverable by the
owner of such dwelling unit until the city gives written notice to the owner
and occupant that such dwelling unit has been issued a valid inspection
certificate as required by this chapter.



177.09   SECTION 103.1 ADDITION - - GENERAL.



Section 103.1, General, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by adding the
following paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator The term Code Official
is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code Official.



177.10   SECTION 103.5 AMENDED - - FEES.



Section 103.5, Fees, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by deleting said section
and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 103.5 Schedule of permit fees Permits and rental housing
certificates shall not be issued until the fees, as set forth and established
by resolution of the City Council, have been paid to the City of Ankeny.  An
amended permit or a supplemental permit for additional construction shall not
be issued until the permit fee(s) for the additional work has been paid.



   The permit fees shall be based upon the valuation of the proposed
construction and shall be computed from tables set by resolution of the City
Council, rental housing certificate fees shall be as established by
resolution of the City Council.



177.11   SECTION 103.6 ADDITION - - WORK COMMENCING BEFORE PERMIT ISSUANCE.



Section 103.6, Work commencing before permit issuance, of the IPMC, is hereby
established by adding the following section:



   Section 103.6 Work commencing before permit issuance Any person who
commences any work under the provisions of this ordinance before obtaining
the necessary permits shall be subject to 100 percent of the usual permit fee
in addition to the required permit fees.



177.12   SECTION 103.7 ADDITION- - FEE REFUNDS.



Section 103.7, Fee refunds, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by established by
adding the following section:



   Section 103.7 Fee refunds The Code Official is authorized to establish
a refund policy.



177.13   SECTION 302.4 AMENDED - - WEEDS.



Section 302.4, Weeds of the IPMC, is hereby amended by inserting the
following:



   Section 302.4 Weeds (height in inches) 12



177.14   SECTION 304.14 AMENDED - - INSECT SCREENS.



Section 304.14, Insect Screens, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by inserting
the following dates and deleting a portion of the last sentence as follows:



   Section 304.14 Insect screens (from date) April 1 (to date) October 31



   Delete:  and every screen door used for insect control shall have a
self-closing device in good working condition.



177.15   SECTION 307 AMENDED - - HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.



Section 307.1, General, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 307.1 General Existing handrails and guardrails as constructed
in accordance with standards in place at the time of the building's
construction may be maintained.  Handrails and guardrails undergoing any
change, remodel or replacement shall be installed in accordance with the
Ankeny Building Code.



177.16   SECTION 403.5 ADDITION- - CLOTHES DRYER DUCT.



Section 403.5, Clothes dryer duct, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by adding
the following section:



   Section 403.5.1 Clothes dryer duct   Transition ducts, in rental
dwelling units and buildings, used to connect the dryer to the exhaust duct
system shall be a single length that is listed and labeled in accordance with
UL 2158A. Transition ducts shall be a maximum of 8 feet (2438 mm) in length
and shall not be concealed within construction.



177.17   SECTION 404.4.1 AMENDED - - ROOM AREA.



Section 404.4.1, Room Area, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 404.4.1 Room area Every living room shall contain at least 120
square feet and every bedroom shall contain at least 70 square feet.  Where
more than two persons occupy a bedroom the required floor area shall be
increased at the rate of 50 square feet for each occupant in excess of two.



177.18   SECTION 602.3 AMENDED - - HEAT SUPPLY.



Section 602.3, Heat supply, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by inserting the
following dates:



   Section 602.3 Heat supply (from date) September 15 (to date) May 15



177.19   SECTION 602.4 AMENDED - - OCCUPIABLE WORK SPACES.



Section 602.4, Occupiable work spaces, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by
inserting the following dates:



   Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces (from date) September 15 (to date)
May 15



177.20   SECTION 605.2 ADDITION - - RECEPTACLES.



Section 605.2, receptacles, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 605.2 Receptacles Every habitable space in a dwelling shall
contain at least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry
area shall contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with
a ground fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle and shall have ground fault circuit interrupter protection. All
125-volt, single phase, 15- and 20- ampere receptacles, in rental dwelling
units, within six feet of the edge of a sink, bathtub or shower stall shall
be provided with ground fault circuit interrupter protection. All receptacle
outlets shall have the appropriate faceplate cover for the location. 
Receptacle replacement shall include tamper resistant receptacles in
accordance with the adopted Ankeny Electrical Code.



177.21   SECTION 702.4 ADDITION - - EMERGENCY ESCAPE OPENINGS.



Section 702.4, Emergency Escape Openings, of the IPMC, is hereby amended by
adding the following section:



   Section 702.4.1 Emergency escape openings Replacement windows shall be
the manufacturer's largest standard size window that will fit within the
existing frame or existing rough opening.  The replacement window shall be
permitted to be of the same operating style as the existing window or a style
that provides for an equal or greater window opening area than the existing
window.  Emergency escape windows, other than replacement(s), shall meet the
requirements for Emergency Escape and Rescue Openings of the Ankeny Building
Code.



177.22   SECTION 705 ADDITION - - CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.



Section 705, Carbon Monoxide Alarms, of the IPMC, is hereby established by
adding the following section:



   Section 705.1 Carbon Monoxide Alarms Carbon monoxide alarms shall be
installed in all rental units including existing single family dwelling units
in accordance with the Ankeny Building Code and Ankeny Fire Code and Iowa
Administrative Code 661-211.



177.23   SECTION 706 ADDITION - - PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS IN RENTAL
UNITS. 



Section 706, Portable Fire Extinguishers in Rental Units, is hereby
established by adding the following section:



   Section 706  Portable Fire Extinguishers In Rental Units  Portable
fire extinguishers shall be provided in rental units and/or rental buildings
as follows:



   706.1 Non-sprinklered Single Family Dwellings, One and Two Family
Dwellings and Townhomes Dwellings.  Each dwelling unit shall be provided
with a charged and operable portable fire extinguisher, minimum 5 Lb.
2-A:10-B:C,  located in an accessible location. 



   706.2 Sprinklered Single Family Dwellings, One and Two Family Dwellings
and Townhomes Dwellings. Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a charged
and operable portable fire extinguisher, minimum 5 Lb. 1-A:10-B:C,  located
in an accessible location.



   706.3 Non-sprinklered Multi Family Dwellings and Buildings.  Each
dwelling unit shall be provided with a charged and operable portable fire
extinguisher, minimum 5 Lb. 2-A:10-B:C,  located in an accessible location
-or- the common area(s)/each floor shall be provided with charged and
operable minimum 5 Lb. 2-A:10-B:C portable fire extinguisher(s) located in
conspicuous and readily accessible locations and within 75' travel distance
of each dwelling unit in accordance with the Ankeny Fire Code. 



   706.4 Sprinklered Multi Family Dwellings and Buildings.  Each
sprinklered dwelling unit shall be provided with a charged and operable
portable fire extinguisher, minimum 5 Lb. 1-A:10-B:C,  located in an
accessible location -or- the common area(s)/each floor shall be provided with
a charged and operable minimum 5 Lb. 2-A:10-B:C portable fire extinguisher(s)
located in conspicuous and readily accessible locations and within 75' travel
distance of each dwelling unit in accordance with the Ankeny Fire Code. 



   Portable fire extinguishers located within individual dwelling units
may be of the non-rechargeable type and must be replaced after ten years.



   Portable fire extinguishers located in common areas shall be of the
rechargeable type and are subject to required maintenance at intervals of not
more than one year by a trained and certified individual.



(Chapter 177 - Ord. 1942 - May 18 Supp.)



CHAPTER 178
PLUMBING CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IPC Section


178.01
 
Short Title
 


178.02
 
Adoption of Plumbing Code
 


178.03
 
Amendments, modification, additions and deletions
 


178.04
 
Deletions
 


178.05
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 


178.06
 
Title
 
101.1


178.07
 
General (Building & Zoning Administrator)
 
103.1


178.08
 
Uniform/State Plumbing Code
 
105.2.1


178.09
 
Permit Acquisition
 
106.1.1


178.10
 
Expiration
 
106.5.3


178.11
 
Retention of Construction Documents
 
106.5.6


178.12
 
Fee Schedule
 
106.6.2


178.13
 
Fee Refunds
 
106.6.3


178.14
 
Violation Penalties
 
108.4


178.15
 
Stop Work Order
 
108.5


178.16
 
Freezing
 
305.4


178.17
 
Sewer Depth
 
305.4.1


178.18
 
Drainage and Vent Air Test
 
312.3


178.19
 
Table 403.1, footnote ‘e’
 
T403.1


178.20
 
Small Occupancies
 
410.2


178.21
 
Material, joints and connections (underground copper)
 
605.1.1


178.22
 
Building Sewer (minimum size)
 
703.7


178.23
 
Backwater Valves (exception)
 
715.1


178.24
 
Basement Floor Drain Venting (exception)
 
901.2.1


178.25
 
Roof Extension (vent)
 
903.1


178.26
 
Grease Interceptors
 
1003.3




 



178.01   SHORT TITLE.



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Plumbing Code, and may be cited as
such, and may be referred to herein as “this chapter.”



178.02   ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.



The International Plumbing Code 2015 Edition; published by the International
Code Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions as may be
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy of the International
Plumbing Code 2015 Edition, as adopted, and a copy of this chapter are on
file in the office of the Code Official.



178.03   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS.



The International Plumbing Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known as the IPC),
is amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 178.04 through 178.26. 



178.04   DELETIONS.



The following are deleted from the IPC and are of no force or effect in this
chapter:



   Section 106.1.1 Annual Permit, Section 106.1.2 Annual Permits Record,
Section 106.5.4 Extensions, Section 109 Means of Appeal, 703.6 Combined
Sanitary and Storm Public Sewer.



178.05   REFERENCED CODES - - CONFLICTS.



In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and
Federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply.



178.06   SECTION 101.1 AMENDED - - TITLE.



Section 101.1, Title, of the IPC is hereby deleted and there is enacted in
lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Plumbing Code, hereinafter known as “this code.”



178.07   SECTION 103.1 ADDITION - - GENERAL.



Sections 103.1, General, of the IPC, is hereby amended by adding the
following paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator The term Code Official
is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code Official.



178.08   SECTION 105.2 ADDITION - - ALTERNATE MATERIALS, METHODS AND
EQUIPMENT.



Section 105.2, Alternate materials, methods and equipment, of the IPC, is
hereby amended by adding the following section 105.2.1 and exception:



   Section 105.2.1 - Uniform Plumbing Code, As Currently Adopted Edition 
The Uniform Plumbing Code, as prepared and edited by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, as currently adopted and
amended by the Plumbing and Mechanical Systems Board, Iowa Department of
Public Health, is hereby approved as an alternate equivalent method for
complete plumbing systems.



   Section 105.2.1, Administration exception 1 Administrative regulations
shall be as prescribed in the International Plumbing Code, 2015 Edition, as
amended in this ordinance.



178.09   SECTION 106.1.1 ADDITION - - PERMIT ACQUISITION.



Section 106.1.1 Permit acquisition, of the IPC, is hereby established by
adding the following:



   Section 106.1.1 Permit acquisition 



   1.   Permits are not transferable. Plumbing work performed under the
provisions of this chapter must be done by a contractor meeting the licensing
provisions as set forth by the State of Iowa Plumbing and Mechanical Systems
Board in accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 105. A plumber licensed by the
State of Iowa Plumbing and Mechanical Systems Board as a “Master” may
sign and obtain a permit for the contractor for which they are employed only
when said “Master” has provided proof of employment by said licensed
contractor. Any permit required by the provisions of this code may be revoked
by the Code Official upon the violation of any provision of this code.



   2.   A State of Iowa licensed Plumbing contractor shall be allowed
only to secure permits for himself or herself, or for a single firm or
corporation. When a State of Iowa licensed Plumbing contractor has secured
such a permit, only the employees of such contractor when meeting the
provisions of Iowa Code Chapter 105 shall perform the work for which the
permit was obtained.



   3.   For purposes of this section, an “employee” shall be one
employed by the contractor, firm or corporation for a wage or salary.  A
contractor may be required by the Code Official to show positive evidence as
to the employee status of workers on the job.  Such evidence shall be in the
form of payroll and time records, canceled checks, or other such documents.



   4.   The contractor may also be required to show the agreement or
contract pertaining to the work being questioned as evidence that said
contractor is, in fact, the actual contractor for such work.  Failure or
refusal by the contractor to make available such employee or contractual
records within 24 hours from demand therefore shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of any permit for the work in question.



   5.   Homeowners (owner/occupants) qualifying for the homestead tax
exemption may acquire permits for their principal residence (not an apartment
or rental unit or rental building) and appurtenant accessory structures for
plumbing work, not to include connection within the public right-of-way to
the public main of sewer, water and storm lines, after having passed the
Ankeny Plumbing Homeowner’s exam.



178.10   SECTION 106.5.3 AMENDED - - EXPIRATION.



Section 106.5.3 Expiration, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.5.3 12 Month Expiration  Every permit issued under the
provisions of this Code shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of
issue, unless the application is accompanied by a construction schedule of
specific longer duration, in which instance the permit may be issued for the
term of the construction schedule, with approval of the Code Official.  If
the work has not been completed by the expiration date of the permit, no
further work shall be done until the permit shall have been renewed by the
owner or his or her agent and by payment of the renewal fee as established by
Resolution of the City Council, and provided no changes have been made in
plans or location.  Upon approval, permits may be extended for no more than
two periods not exceeding 180 days each.



178.11   SECTION 106.5.6 AMENDED - - RETENTION OF CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.



Section 106.5.6, Retention of construction documents, of the IPC, is hereby
amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.5.6 Retention of construction documents One set of
construction documents shall be retained by the Code Official for a period of
not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as
required by state or local law.



178.12   SECTION 106.6.2 AMENDED - - FEE SCHEDULE.



Section 106.6.2 Fee schedule, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.6.2 Fee schedule Permits shall not be issued until the
fees, as set forth and established by resolution of the City Council, have
been paid to the City of Ankeny.  An amended permit or a supplemental permit
for additional construction shall not be issued until the permit fee(s) for
the additional work has been paid.



178.13   SECTION 106.6.3 AMENDED- - FEE REFUNDS.



Section 106.6.3, Fee refunds, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.6.3 Fee refunds  The Code Official is authorized to
establish a refund policy.



178.14   SECTION 108.4 AMENDED - - VIOLATION PENALTIES.



Section 108.4, Violation penalties, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 108.4 Violation penalties  Any person who violates a provision
of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
erects, installs, alters or repairs plumbing work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Code Official, or of a
permit issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.



178.15   SECTION 108.5 AMENDED - - STOP WORK ORDER.



Section 108.5, Stop Work Orders, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting
the last sentence of said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.



178.16   SECTION 305.4 AMENDED - - FREEZING.



Section 305.4 Freezing, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting the last
sentence of said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 305.4 Freezing  Exterior water supply system piping shall be
installed not less than sixty (60) inches below grade.



178.17   SECTION 305.4.1 AMENDED - - SEWER DEPTH.



Section 305.4.1 Sewer Depth, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 305.4.1 Sewer Depth  Building sewers shall be a minimum of
forty-eight (48) inches below grade.



178.18   SECTION 312.3 AMENDED - - DRAINAGE AND VENT FINAL TEST.



Section 312.3 Drainage and Final Vent Test, of the IPC, is hereby amended by
deleting the first sentence thereto.



178.19   TABLE 403.1 AMENDED - - MINIMUM NUMBER OF REQUIRED PLUMBING
FIXTURES.



Table 403.1 Minimum Number of Required Plumbing Fixtures, of the IPC, is
hereby amended by deleting footnote ‘e’ and inserting in lieu thereof the
following.



   Footnote ‘e’  For business occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than thirty (30) and mercantile occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than one hundred (100), service sinks shall not be required.



178.20   SECTION 410.2 AMENDED - - SMALL OCCUPANCIES.



Section 410.2 Substitution, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 410.2 Small Occupancies  Water dispensers in accessible
locations and within accessible reach ranges may be substituted for the
initial drinking fountains in business occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than thirty (30) and mercantile occupancies with an occupant load of
not more than one hundred (100). (re: IBC chapter 11, T2902.1)



178.21   SECTION 605 ADDITION - - MATERIALS, JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.



Section 605 Materials, joints and connections, of the IPC, is hereby amended
by adding the following section:



   Section 605.1.1 Underground Copper Copper tube for underground piping
shall have a weight of not less than type K.



178.22   SECTION 703 ADDITION - - BUILDING SEWER.



Section 703 Building Sewer, of the IPC, is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



   Section 703.7 Minimum Building Sewer Size  The minimum diameter for a
building sewer shall be four (4) inches.



178.23   SECTION 715.1 ADDITION - - BACKWATER VALVES.



Section 715.1 Sewage Backflow, of the IPC, is hereby amended by adding the
following:



   Section 715.1 Sewage backflow exception 2  The requirements of this
section shall apply when determined necessary by the Code Official based on
local conditions as determined by the Ankeny Public Works
Department/Development Engineering Division.



178.24   SECTION 901.2.1 ADDITION - - VENTING REQUIRED.



Section 901.2.1 Venting Required, of the IPC, is hereby amended by adding the
following exception:



   Section 901.2.1 Venting Required exception  A vent is not required on
a three inch basement floor drain provided its drain branches into the
building drain on the sewer side at a distance of five feet or more from the
base of the stack and the branch line to such floor drain is not more than
twelve feet in length.



178.25   SECTION 903.1 AMENDED - - ROOF EXTENSION.



Section 903.1 Roof Extension, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 903.1  Roof Extension  Open vent pipes that extend through a
roof shall be terminated not less than 6 inches above the roof nor less than
1 foot from any vertical surface.  Where a roof is used for any purpose
other than weather protection, open vent pipes shall terminate not less than
7 feet above the roof.



178.26   SECTION 1003.3 AMENDED - - GREASE INTERCEPTORS.



Section 1003.3 Grease Interceptors, of the IPC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 1003.3 Grease Interceptors  Grease Interceptors shall comply
with the requirements of the adopted Ankeny Ordinance Chapter 101. 
Underground plumbing systems and interceptor sizing shall be approved by the
City of Des Moines Wastewater Reclamation Authority (WRA).



(Chapter 178 - Ord. 1911 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 179
ELECTRICAL CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title


179.01
 
Short Title


179.02
 
Adoption of Electrical Code


179.03
 
Addition - Title


179.04
 
Addition - Creation of Enforcement Agency


179.05
 
Permits Required


179.06
 
Permit Acquisition


179.07
 
Addition - Permit Expiration


179.08
 
Addition - Schedule of Permit Fees


179.09
 
Addition - Fee Refunds


179.10
 
Addition - Stop Work Order




 



179.01  SHORT TITLE.



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Electrical code, and may be cited
as such, and may be referred to herein as this chapter.



179.02  ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE.



The National Electrical Code; published by the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA 70), as currently adopted and amended by the Iowa
Electrical Examining Board, Iowa Department of Public Safety, is hereby
adopted.



179.03  ADDITION - TITLE.



Title, of the NEC is hereby established by adding the following:



   Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny Electrical Code
hereinafter known as "this code".



179.04  ADDITION - CREATION OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY..



Creation of Enforcement Agency, of the NEC, is hereby established by adding
the following:



   The term Code Official is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning
Administrator and his or her representatives or designees, who are herewith
delegated the same powers, authorities, duties and responsibilities as
designated for the Code Official.



179.05  PERMITS REQUIRED.



Permits required, of the NEC is hereby established by adding the following,
including exceptions:



   Permits Required Permits shall be required for work contained within
the scope of this article.



   Exceptions:



   1.   Replacement of lighting fixtures, receptacles, switches,
overcurrent protection devices of the same volt and amperage.



   2.   The repair or replacement of flexible cords of same volt and
amperage.



   3.   The process of manufacturing, testing, servicing or repairing
of electrical equipment or apparatus.



   4.   No permit or inspections are required for electrical wiring of
50 volts or less



179.06  PERMIT ACQUISITION.



Permit acquisition, of the NEC, is hereby established by adding the following
article:



   Permit acquisition



   1.   Permits are not transferable. Electrical work performed under
the provisions of this chapter must be done by a contractor meeting the
licensing provisions as set forth by the Iowa Electrical Examining Board in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 103. A responsible person or an electrician
licensed by the State of Iowa Electrical Examining board as a "Master A or B"
may sign and obtain a permit for the contractor for which they are employed
only when said responsible person or "Master A or B" has provided proof of
employment or written confirmation by said licensed contractor. Any permit
required by the provisions of this code may be revoked by the Code Official
upon the violation of any provision of this code.



   2.   A State of Iowa licensed Electrical Contractor or Residential
Contractor shall be allowed only to secure permits for himself or herself, or
for a single firm or corporation. When a State of Iowa licensed Electrical
contractor has secured such a permit, only the employees of such contractor
when meeting the provisions of Iowa Code Chapter 103 shall perform the work
for which the permit was obtained.



   3.   For purposes of this section, an "employee" shall be one
employed by the contractor, firm or corporation for a wage or salary.  A
contractor may be required by the Code Official to show positive evidence and
current employment status of workers on the job.  Such evidence shall be in
the form of payroll and time records, canceled checks or other such documents.



   4.   The contractor may also be required to show the agreement or
contract pertaining to the work being questioned as evidence that said
contractor is, in fact, the actual contractor for such work.  Failure or
refusal by the contractor to make available such employee or contractual
records within 24 hours from demand therefore shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of any permit for the work in question.



   5.   Homeowners (owner/occupants) qualifying for the homestead tax
exemption may acquire permits for their principal residence (not an apartment
or rental unit or rental building) and appurtenant accessory structures for
electrical work, not to include dwelling service upgrade or replacement,
after having passed the Ankeny Electrical Homeowner's exam.



179.07  ADDITION - PERMIT EXPIRATION.



Permit Expiration, of the NEC is hereby established by adding the following:



   12 Month Expiration   Every permit issued under the provisions of this
Code shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of issue, unless the
application is accompanied by a construction schedule of specific longer
duration, in which instance the permit may be issued for the term of the
construction schedule, with approval of the Code Official.  If the work has
not been completed by the expiration date of the permit, no further work
shall be done until the permit shall have been renewed by the owner or his or
her agent and by payment of the renewal fee as established by Resolution of
the City Council, and provided no changes have been made in plans or
location.  Upon approval, permits may be extended for no more than two
periods not exceeding 180 days each. 



179.08  ADDITION - SCHEDULE OF PERMIT FEES.



Schedule of permit fees, of the NEC is hereby established by adding the
following:



   Schedule of permit fees  Permits shall not be issued until the fees,
as set forth and established by resolution of the City Council, have been
paid to the City of Ankeny.  An amended permit or a supplemental permit for
additional construction shall not be issued until the permit fee(s) for the
additional work has been paid.



179.09  ADDITION - FEE REFUNDS.



Fee refunds, of the NEC is hereby established by adding the following:



   Fee refunds The Code Official is authorized to establish a refund
policy in accordance with City policy.



179.10  ADDITION - STOP WORK ORDER.



Stop work order of the NEC is hereby established by adding the following
sections:



   Stop Work Order



   Authority Whenever the Code Official finds any work regulated by this
code being performed in a manner either contrary to the provisions of this
code or dangerous or unsafe, the Code Official is authorized to issue a stop
work order.



   Issuance  The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given
to the owner of the property, or to the owner's agent, or to the person doing
the work.  Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease.  The stop work order shall state the reason for the
order, and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to
resume.  Where an emergency exists the Code Official shall not be required
to give notice prior to stopping the work.



(Chapter 179 - Ord. 1929 - Feb. 18 Supp.)



CHAPTER 180
FIRE CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IFC Section


180.01
 
Short Title
 


180.02
 
Adoption of Fire Code
 


180.03
 
Amendments, modifications, additions and deletions
 


180.04
 
Deletions
 


180.05
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 


180.06
 
Title
 
101.1


180.07
 
General
 
103.1


180.08
 
Appointment
 
103.2


180.09
 
Types Of Permits
 
105.1.2


180.10
 
Violation Penalties
 
109.4


180.11
 
Failure To Comply
 
111.4


180.12
 
Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance
 
113.3


180.13
 
Open Flame Cooking Devices
 
308.1.4


180.14
 
Dimensions
 
503.2.1


180.15
 
Address Identification
 
505.1


180.16
 
Key Boxes - - Installation Requirements 
 
506.3


180.17
 
Where Required (fire hydrant spacing)
 
507.5.1


180.18
 
Hydrant For Fire Department Connections
 
507.5.1.1


180.19
 
Fire Hydrant Markers and Identification Color
 
507.5.7


180.20
 
Fire Hydrant Installation
 
507.5.8


180.21
 
Shutdown of Emergency and Standby Power Systems
 
604.8


180.22
 
Emergency Generator Signs
 
604.9


180.23
 
Basements
 
903.2.11.1.3


180.24
 
Alarms
 
903.4.2


180.25
 
FACP (Fire Alarm Control Panel)
 
907.1.4


180.26
 
Monitoring
 
907.6.6


180.27
 
Fire Department Connections
 
912.1.1


180.28
 
Continuity and Components
 
1009.2 #11


180.29
 
Two-way Communication
 
1009.8


180.30
 
Landings at Doors
 
1010.1.6.1


180.31
 
Hardware
 
1010.1.9.1


180.32
 
Handrails
 
1011.11


180.33
 
Additional Exit Signs
 
1013.1.1


180.34
 
Continuity (handrails)
 
1014.4#6


180.35
 
Access to Public Way
 
1028.5.1


180.36
 
Window Wells
 
1030.5.3


180.37
 
Purpose
 
3301.2


180.38
 
Qualifications
 
5601.4


180.39
 
Above ground Outside Flammable/Combustible Storage (District Limits)
 
5704.1


180.40
 
Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited
 
5704.2.9.6.1


180.41
 
Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited
 
5706.2.4.4


180.42
 
Bulk plants Or Terminals Not Allowed
 
5706.4.0


180.43
 
Limitations
 
5806.2


180.44
 
Maximum Capacity Within Established Limits
 
6104.2




 



180.01   SHORT TITLE. 



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Fire Code, and may be cited as
such, and may be referred to herein as this chapter.



180.02   ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE. 



The International Fire Code 2015 Edition, published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions as may be
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy of the International Fire
Code 2015 Edition, as adopted, and a copy of this chapter are on file in the
office of the Code Official. 



180.03   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS. 



The International Fire Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known as the IFC), is
amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 180.04 through 180.44.



180.04   DELETIONS. 



The following are deleted from the IFC and are of no force or effect in this
chapter:



   Section 102.6 Historic buildings.



180.05   REFERENCED CODES - - CONFLICTS. 



The remaining sections in this chapter represent amendments to the
requirements contained in the IFC.  In the event requirements of this code
conflict with applicable State and/or Federal requirements, the more
stringent shall apply.



180.06   SECTION 101.1 AMENDED - - TITLE. 



Section 101.1, Title, of the IFC, is hereby deleted and there is enacted in
lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Fire Code, hereinafter known as “this code.”



180.07   SECTION 103.1 ADDITION - - GENERAL. 



Section 103.1, General, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding the following
paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator The term Fire Code
Official is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and
shall hereinafter be referred to as Code Official and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code Official.



180.08   SECTION 103.2 ADDITION - - APPOINTMENT. 



Section 103.2, Appointment, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding the
following paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.2 Building & Zoning Administrator There is also hereby
established the position of Building & Zoning Administrator, who shall be
designated by the Planning & Building Director.  The Building and Zoning
Administrator shall have authority to file a complaint in any court of
competent jurisdiction charging a person with the violation of this title.
The Building and Zoning Administrator shall have whatever additional duties
the Planning & Building Director may prescribe.



180.09   SECTION 105.1.2 ADDITION - - TYPES OF PERMITS. 



Section 105.1.2, Types of Permits, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding
the following paragraphs to said section:



   Section 105.1.2 Certificate of Occupancy  A certificate of occupancy
issued pursuant to provisions of the International Building Code may be
assumed to comply with Section 1. Operational Permit.



   Section 105.1.2 Other Permits  Building, Mechanical, Electrical and
Plumbing permits issued pursuant to provisions of their respective codes may
be assumed to comply with Section 2. Construction Permit.



180.10   SECTION 109.4 AMENDED - - VIOLATION PENALTIES. 



Section 109.4, Violation Penalties, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 109.4 Violation Penalties Any person who violates a provision
of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
erects, constructs, alters or repairs a building or structure in violation of
the approved construction documents or directive of the building official, or
of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law.



180.11   SECTION 111.4 AMENDED - - FAILURE TO COMPLY. 



Section 111.4, Failure to Comply, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 111.4 Failure To Comply  Any person who shall continue any
work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.



180.12   SECTION 113.3 ADDITION - - WORK COMMENCING BEFORE PERMIT
ISSUANCE. 



SECTION 113.3, Work Commencing before Permit Issuance, of the IFC, is hereby
amended by adding the following sentence after said section:



   Section 113.3 Work commencing before permit issuance Said fee shall be
100 percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fees.



180.13   SECTION 308.1.4 AMENDED - - OPEN FLAME COOKING DEVICES. 



Section 308.1.4, Open Flame Cooking Devices, of the IFC, is hereby amended by
deleting said section and exceptions and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:



   Section 308.1.4 Open Flame Cooking Devices  Charcoal burners, other
open-flame cooking devices, and other devices that produce ashes or embers
shall not be operated on balconies or within 20 feet (3048 mm) of combustible
construction. Location of LP containers shall comply with Section 6104.



   Exceptions:



   1. One- and two-family dwellings, constructed in accordance with the
International Residential Code.



   2. LP-gas cooking devices having LP-gas container with a water capacity
not greater than 20 pounds.



180.14   SECTION 503.2.1 AMENDED - - DIMENSIONS. 



Section 503.2.1, Dimensions, of the IFC, is hereby amended by amended by
deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 503.2.1 Dimensions  Fire apparatus access roads shall have a
minimum unobstructed width of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm), exclusive of
shoulders, except for approved security gates in accordance with Section
503.6, and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 14 feet (4268
mm).



180.15   SECTION 505.1 AMENDED - - ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION. 



Section 505.1, Address Identification, of the IFC, is hereby amended by
amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following
section and table:



   505.1 Address identification.



   New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers,
building numbers or approved building identification placed in a position
that is plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the
property. These numbers shall be black or white and shall contrast with their
background. Where required by the fire code official, address numbers shall
be provided in greater dimension or additional approved locations to
facilitate emergency response. Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers or
alphabetical letters. Numbers and letters shall be a minimum height and a
minimum stroke width as dictated by Table 505.1. Where access is by means of
a private road and the building cannot be viewed from the public way, a
monument, pole or other sign or means shall be used to identify the
structure. Address numbers shall be maintained.



Table 501.1
Minimum Height and Stroke Width a,b







a Exterior suite identification, minimum height shall be 4 inches and stroke
width shall be ½ inch.



b Interior suite identification, minimum height shall be 2 inches and stroke
width shall be ¼ inch.



180.16   SECTION 506 ADDITION - - KEY BOXES (INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS). 



Section 506, Key Boxes, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding a new section
as follows:



   Section 506.3 Key Box Installation Requirements Buildings provided with
an alarm system or a sprinkler system shall be provided with a key box at the
front of the building typically adjacent to the main front door(s) at a
height of five feet above grade or at a location as directed by the Code
Official.



180.17   SECTION 507.5 AMENDED - - WHERE REQUIRED (FIRE HYDRANT SPACING). 



Section 507.5.1, Where Required, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section, including exceptions, and inserting in lieu thereof the
following section and exception:



   Section 507.5.1– Where required (fire hydrant spacing) Locate at
street intersections or as approved by City subject to the following spacing:



   1.   Residential:  400 foot; maximum coverage:  86,000 SF.



   2.   Commercial:  400 foot; maximum coverage:  86,000 SF.



   3.   No part of a proposed single family dwelling or duplex shall be
more than 250 feet from a hydrant unless said building is sprinklered.



   4.   No part of a multi-family, commercial or industrial building
shall be more than 200 feet from a fire hydrant unless said building is fully
sprinklered.



   Section 507.5.1 Where required (fire hydrant spacing) exception:  For
Group R-3 and Group U occupancies and for buildings equipped with an approved
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or
903.3.1.2 the distance requirements may be modified when approved by the Code
Official.



180.18   SECTION 507.5.1.1 AMENDED - - HYDRANT FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT
CONNECTIONS.



Section 507.5.1.1, Hydrant for Fire Department Connections, of the IFC, is
hereby established by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:



   Section 507.2.1.1 Hydrant for Fire Department Connections Buildings
equipped with a fire department connection installed in accordance with
Section 912 shall have a fire hydrant located on a fire access road within
100 feet (30 m) of the fire department connection as measured by an approved
route around the exterior of the building.



   Exception: The distance shall be permitted to exceed 100 feet (30 m)
where approved by the Code Official



180.19   SECTION 507.5.7 ADDITION - - FIRE HYDRANT MARKERS AND
IDENTIFICATION COLOR. 



Section 507.5.7, Fire Hydrant Markers and Identification Colors, of the IFC,
is hereby established by adding the following section:



   Section 507.5.7 Fire Hydrant Markers and Identification Colors When
required by the Code Official, hydrant locations shall be identified by the
installation of an approved reflective marker. Both public and private
hydrants shall comply with and be painted to Local Water Utility
specifications.



180.20   SECTION 507.5.8 ADDITION - - FIRE HYDRANT INSTALLATION. 



Section 507.5.8, Fire Hydrant Installation, of the IFC, is hereby established
by adding the following section:



   Section 507.5.8 Fire Hydrant Installation Fire hydrants shall be
installed with the grade mark on the fire hydrant at the level of finished
grade. The large diameter connection shall be installed such that the
connection is oriented facing the fire department access road.



180.21   SECTION 604.8 ADDITION - - SHUTDOWN OF EMERGENCY AND STANDBY
POWER SYSTEMS. 



Section 604.8, Shutdown of Emergency and Standby Power Systems, of the IFC,
is hereby established by adding the following section:



   Section 604.8 Shutdown of Emergency and Standby Power Systems In
addition to the requirements of NFPA 110 for a remote manual stop, a switch
of an approved type shall be provided to shut down the generator.  The
switch shall be provided at an approved location.



180.22   SECTION 604.9 ADDITION - - EMERGENCY GENERATOR SIGNS. 



Section 604.9, Emergency Generator Signs, of the IFC, is hereby established
by adding the following section:



   Section 604.9 Emergency Generator Signs Main electrical disconnects and
main breaker panels supplied by the generator shall be provided with approved
signs.  Additionally, doors accessing emergency and standby power systems
shall be provided with approved signs.  When approved switches for emergency
power shut-down are located remote from the fire alarm annunciator, an
approved sign shall be provided at fire alarm annunciator.  Approved signs
shall contain the word CAUTION in black letters at least 2 inches (50 mm)
high on a yellow background. Such warning signs shall be placed so as to be
readily discernible.



180.23   SECTION 903.2.11.1.3 AMENDED - - BASEMENTS. 



Section 903.2.11.1.3, Basements, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 903.2.11.1.3 Basements Where any portion of a basement is
located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) from openings required by Section
903.2.11.1, the basement shall be equipped throughout with an approved
automatic sprinkler system.



180.24   SECTION 903.4.2 AMENDED - - ALARMS. 



Section 903.4.2, Alarms, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 903.4.2 Alarms An approved weather proof audible device
suitable for outdoor use with 110 candela visual signal shall be connected to
every automatic sprinkler system. Such sprinkler water-flow alarm devices
shall be activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler
of the smallest orifice size installed in the system. Alarm devices shall be
provided on the exterior of the building in an approved location. Where a
fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the automatic sprinkler system
shall actuate the building fire alarm system.



180.25   SECTION 907.1.4 ADDITION - - FACP (FIRE ALARM CONTROL PANEL). 



Section 907.1.4, FACP (Fire Alarm Control Panel), of the IFC, is hereby
established by adding the following section and exception:



   Section 907.1.4 FACP (Fire Alarm Control Panels) Each building shall
have no more than 1 FACP. Installation of fire alarm panel shall be not
exceed six feet in height measured from the floor to the top of the unit.



Exception: Suppression system releasing panels are not required to meet the
height requirement or the limitation in the number of panels.



180.26   SECTION 907.6.6 AMENDED - - MONITORING. 



Section 907.6.6, Monitoring, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following section and exception:



   Section 907.6.6 Monitoring Fire alarm systems required by this chapter
or by the International Building Code shall be monitored by a central station
approved and listed under UL 827 in accordance with NFPA 72.



   Exception: Monitoring station is not required for automatic sprinkler
and fire alarm systems in one- and two- family dwellings.



180.27   SECTION 912 ADDITION - - FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS. 



Section 912, Fire department connections, of the IFC, is hereby amended by
adding a new section and exception as follows:



   Section 912.1.1 Storz fire department connection The fire department
connection(s) shall be a five-inch (5") Storz type connector(s) compatible
with the hose couplings currently used by the Ankeny Fire Department.



   Section 912.1.1 Storz fire department connection exception 1  A fire
department connection having the standard internal threaded swivel fittings
of 2 1/2 inches NST may be substituted for the five-inch Storz connection
with the approval of the Code Official where system pressures may exceed hose
test pressure or water supply could require an extensive hose lay to the
structure.



180.28   SECTION 1009.2 ADDITION - - CONTINUITY AND COMPONENTS.



Section 1009.2, Continuity and Components, Of the IFC, is hereby amended by
adding the following #11 to said section:



   Section 1009.2 Continuity and Components #11 Components of exterior
walking surfaces shall be concrete, asphalt or other approved hard surface.



180.29   SECTION 1009.8 ADDITION - - TWO-WAY COMMUNICATION. 



Section 1009.8, Two-way Communication, of the IFC, is hereby amended by
adding the following exception:



   Section 1009.8 exception 6 Two-way communication systems are not
required for elevators that serve two story buildings designed to meet the
provisions of section IFC 1019, Exit Access Stairways and Ramps.



180.30   SECTION 1010.1.6 ADDITION - - LANDINGS AT DOORS. 



Section 1010.1.6, Landing at Doors, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding a
new section as follows:



   Section 1010.1.6.1 Frost protection for landings required by Section
1010.1.5 to be at the same elevation on each side of the door exterior
landings at doors shall be provided with frost protection.



180.31   SECTION 1010.1.9.1 ADDITION - - HARDWARE. 



Section 1010.1.9.1 is hereby amended by adding a new sentence following this
section:



   Section 1010.1.9.1 Hardware Thumb turn locks shall not be allowed.



180.32   SECTION 1011.11 AMENDED - - HANDRAILS. 



Section 1011.11, Handrails, of the IFC is hereby amended by deleting
exception 4 and inserting in lieu thereof the foll0wing:



   Section 1011.11 Handrails exception 4   Changes in elevation of four
or more risers within individual units of Group R-2 and R-3 occupancies
require a handrail on at least one side.



180.33   SECTION 1013.1.1 ADDITION - - ADDITIONAL EXIT SIGNS. 



Section 1013.1.1, Additional Exit Signs, of the IFC, is hereby established by
adding the following section:



   Section 1013.1.1 Additional Exit Signs Exit signs may be required at
the discretion of the Code Official to clarify an exit or exit access.



180.34   SECTION 1014.4 ADDITION - - (HANDRAIL) CONTINUITY. 



Section 1014.4, Continuity, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding the
following exception:



   Section 1014.4 Continuity exception 6   Handrails within a dwelling
unit or serving an individual dwelling unit of groups R-2 and R-3 shall be
permitted to be interrupted at one location in a straight stair when the rail
terminates into a wall or ledge and is offset and immediately continues.



180.35   SECTION 1028.5 ADDITION - - ACCESS TO A PUBLIC WAY. 



Section 1028.5, Access to a Public Way, of the IFC, is hereby amended by
adding the following section:



   Section 1028.5.1 Access to a Public Way Components of exterior walking
surfaces shall be concrete, asphalt or other approved hard surface.



180.36   SECTION 1030.5 ADDITION - - WINDOW WELLS. 



Section 1030.5, Window wells, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding a new
section as follows:



   Section 1030.5.3 Window well drainage All window wells shall be
provided with approved drainage.



180.37   SECTION 3301.2 AMENDED - - PURPOSE. 



Section 3301.2, Purpose, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 3301.2 Purpose This chapter prescribes minimum safeguards for
construction, alteration and demolition operations to provide reasonable
safety to life and property from fire and other emergencies during such
operations.



180.38   SECTION 5601.4 ADDITION - - QUALIFICATIONS. 



Section 2601.4, Qualifications, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding the
following exception:



   Section 5601.4 Qualifications exception Persons in charge of fireworks
display or pyrotechnic special effect operations may be less than 21 years of
age if they possess a valid PGI display fireworks operator certification or
equivalent certification approved by the fire code official.



180.39   SECTION 5704 ADDITION - - STORAGE (TANKS) - - STORAGE OF
FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS - - DISTRICT
LIMITS.



Section 5704 Storage, of the IFC, is hereby amended by adding a new
subsection as follows:



   Subsection 5704.1.1 - - Storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside aboveground tanks - - District Limits  Storage of flammable or
combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks is limited in all zoning
districts, subject to restrictions, and allowed only as follows:



   A.   In M-1, M-2 and U-1 zoning district the maximum liquid storage
capacity for any one tank shall be twelve thousand five hundred gallons and
the maximum aggregate liquid storage capacity of all tanks at any one site
shall be twenty-five thousand gallons. All storage tank installations
permitted under this subsection shall be subject to prior site plan review
and approval by the Plan and Zoning Commission and shall be screened from
view from property lines, if necessary.



   B.   In other than M-1, M-2 and U-1 zoning districts, generator(s)
maximum liquid storage capacity for Legally Required Standby Systems of
essential facilities including Risk Category III and IV buildings not fueled
by natural gas shall be limited to a Class II fuel supply necessary to allow
for twenty-four (24) hours of emergency operations in a NFPA/UL compliant
sub-base tank (documentation from the generator manufacturer must be
submitted to confirm the required fuel tank capacity).  Installations
permitted under this subsection shall be subject to prior site plan review
and approval by the Plan and Zoning Commission and shall be screened from
view from property lines.



   C.   All storage tank installations otherwise permitted under the
above subsections shall be in conformance with the NFPA, the International
Fire Code and all other applicable federal, state and municipal statutes,
rules and regulations.



(Ord. 1954 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



180.40   SECTION 5704.2.9.6.1 AMENDED - - LOCATIONS WHERE ABOVE-GROUND
TANKS ARE PROHIBITED. 



Section 5704.2.9.6.1, Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited, of
the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:



   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited
Locations of above ground tanks shall be as stipulated in this chapter
pursuant to 180.39 SECTION 5704 - STORAGE (TANKS) - - STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS - - DISTRICT LIMITS.



(Ord. 1954 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



180.41   SECTION 5706.2.4.4 AMENDED - - LOCATIONS WHERE ABOVE-GROUND TANKS
ARE PROHIBITED.



Section 5706.2.4.4, Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited, of the
IFC, is hereby amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof
the following:



   Section 5704.2.4.4 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited
Locations of above ground tanks shall be as stipulated in this chapter
pursuant to 180.39 SECTION 5704 - STORAGE (TANKS) - - STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS - - DISTRICT LIMITS. 



(Ord. 1954 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



180.42   SECTION 5706.4 AMENDED - - BULK PLANTS OR TERMINALS - MAXIMUM
CAPACITY WITHIN ESTABLISHED LIMITS (BULK PLANTS NOT ALLOWED).



Section 5706.4, Bulk plants or terminals, of the IFC, is hereby amended by
adding a new section as follows:



   5706.4.0 Bulk Plants.  For the purposes of Sections 1 through 3, "bulk
plants" means that portion of the property where refined flammable or
combustible liquids are received by tank, vessel, pipeline, tank car or tank
vehicle, and are stored or blended in bulk for the purpose of distributing
such liquids in tank, vessel, pipeline, tank car or tank vehicle or container.



   (1) Location of bulk plants with aboveground storage facilities.
No new bulk plant with aboveground storage facilities shall be constructed
within the city; except in the case that the facility is located on property
owned by the City of Ankeny or the Ankeny Regional Airport Authority.



   (2) Location of bulk plants with underground storage facilities.
No new bulk plant with underground storage facilities shall be constructed
within any zoning district in the city except in the M-1 and M-2 zoning
districts.



   (3) Existing bulk plants--Subject to provisions.
Any bulk plant which is in operation prior to adoption of this ordinance, may
continue to remain in operation so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:



      (A) No such bulk plant may be enlarged or altered in a way which
would increase its storage capacity unless such additional storage capacity
is installed underground.



      (B) Should any of the storage facilities be destroyed by any
means, the same may be rebuilt, providing that such storage facilities are
installed underground.



(Ord. 1954 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



180.43   SECTION 5806.2 AMENDED - - LIMITATIONS.



Section 5806.2, Limitations, of the IFC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 5704.2.4.4 Limitations Locations of above ground tanks shall be
as stipulated in this chapter pursuant to 180.39 SECTION 5704 - STORAGE
(TANKS) - - STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE
ABOVEGROUND TANKS - - DISTRICT LIMITS.



(Ord. 1954 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



180.44   SECTION 6104.2 ADDITION - - MAXIMUM CAPACITY WITHIN ESTABLISHED
LIMITS.   



Section 6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits, of the IFC, is
hereby amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the
following section as follows:



   Section 6104.2 Maximum Capacity within Established Limits Locations of
above ground tanks shall be as stipulated in this chapter pursuant to 180.39
SECTION 5704 - STORAGE (TANKS) - - STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE
LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS - - DISTRICT LIMITS. 



(Ord. 1954 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



(Ch. 180 - Ord. 1912 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 181
FUEL GAS CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IFGC Section


181.01
 
Short Title
 
 


181.02
 
Adoption of Fuel Gas Code
 
 


181.03
 
Amendments, modification, additions and deletions
 
 


181.04
 
Deletions
 
 


181.05
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 
 


181.06
 
Title
 
101.1


181.07
 
General (Building & Zoning Administrator)
 
103.1


181.08
 
NFPA 54, NFPA 58
 
105.2.1, 105.2.2


181.09
 
Permit Acquisition
 
106.1.1


181.10
 
Expiration
 
106.5.3


181.11
 
Retention of Construction Documents
 
106.5.6


181.12
 
Fee Schedule
 
106.6.2


181.13
 
Fee Refunds
 
106.6.3


181.14
 
Violation Penalties
 
108.4


181.15
 
Stop Work Orders
 
108.5


181.16
 
Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing (CSST)
 
403.5.4


181.17
 
Metallic Piping Joints and Fittings (welded) 
 
403.10




 



181.01    SHORT TITLE. 



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Fuel Gas Code, and may be cited as
such, and may be referred to herein as this chapter.



181.02    ADOPTION OF FUEL GAS CODE. 



The International Fuel Gas Code 2015 Edition; published by the International
Code Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions as may be
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy of the International Fuel
Gas Code 2015 Edition, as adopted and a copy of this chapter are on file in
the office of the Code Official.



181.03    AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS. 



The International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known as the
IFGC), is amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 181.04 through 181.17.



181.04    DELETIONS. 



The following are deleted from the IFGC and are of no force or effect in this
chapter:



   Section 106.1.1 Annual Permit, Section 106.1.2 Annual Permits Record,
Section 106.5.4 Extensions, Section 109 Means of Appeal.



181.05    REFERENCED CODES - - CONFLICTS. 



In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and/or
Federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply.



181.06    SECTION 101.1 AMENDED - - TITLE. 



Section 101.1, Title, of the IFGC, is hereby deleted and there is enacted in
lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Fuel Gas Code, hereinafter known as “this code.”



181.07    SECTION 103.1 ADDITION - - GENERAL. 



Sections 103.1, General, of the IFGC, is hereby amended by adding the
following paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator The term Code Official
is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code Official.



181.08    SECTION 105.2 ADDITION - - ALTERNATE MATERIALS, METHODS AND
EQUIPMENT. 



Section 105.2, Alternate materials, methods and equipment, of the IFGC, is
hereby amended by adding the following sections 105.2.1 and 105.2.2:



   Section 105.2.1 - National Fuel Gas Code (NFPA 54) As Currently Adopted
Edition The National Fuel Gas Code, as published by the National Fire
Protection Association, as currently adopted, amended and/or referenced by
the Plumbing and Mechanical Systems Board, Iowa Department of Public Health
and/or the Iowa State Fire Marshal, is hereby approved as an alternate
equivalent method for complete gas piping systems. Administrative regulations
shall be as prescribed in the International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 Edition, as
amended in this ordinance.



   Section 105.2.2 - Liquid Petroleum Gas Code (NFPA 58) As Currently
Adopted Edition The Liquid Petroleum Gas Code, as published by the National
Fire Protection Association, as currently adopted, amended and/or referenced
by the Plumbing and Mechanical Systems Board, Iowa Department of Public
Health and/or the Iowa State Fire Marshal and as referenced in this code, is
hereby approved as an alternate equivalent method for complete gas piping
systems. Administrative regulations shall be as prescribed in the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 Edition, as amended in this ordinance.



181.09    SECTION 106.1 ADDITION - - PERMIT ACQUISITION. 



Section 106.1 Permit acquisition, of the IFGC, is hereby established by
adding the following:



   Subsection 106.1.1 Permit acquisition 



   1.   Permits are not transferable. Fuel Gas work performed under the
provisions of this chapter must be done by a contractor meeting the licensing
provisions as set forth by the State of Iowa Plumbing and Mechanical Systems
Board in accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 105. A responsible person or
mechanical professional licensed by the State of Iowa Plumbing and Mechanical
Systems Board as a “Master” may sign and obtain a permit for the
contractor for which they are employed only when said responsible person or
“Master” has provided proof of employment or written confirmation by said
licensed contractor. Any permit required by the provisions of this code may
be revoked by the Code Official upon the violation of any provision of this
code.



   2.   A State of Iowa licensed Mechanical contractor shall be allowed
only to secure permits for himself or herself, or for a single firm or
corporation. When a State of Iowa licensed Mechanical contractor has secured
such a permit, only the employees of such contractor when meeting the
provisions of Iowa Code Chapter 105 shall perform the work for which the
permit was obtained.



   3.   For purposes of this section, an “employee” shall be one
employed by the contractor, firm or corporation for a wage or salary.  A
contractor may be required by the Code Official to show positive evidence as
to the employee status of workers on the job.  Such evidence shall be in the
form of payroll and time records, canceled checks, or other such documents.



   4.   The contractor may also be required to show the agreement or
contract pertaining to the work being questioned as evidence that said
contractor is, in fact, the actual contractor for such work.  Failure or
refusal by the contractor to make available such employee or contractual
records within 24 hours from demand therefore shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of any permit for the work in question.



181.10    SECTION 106.5.3 AMENDED - - EXPIRATION. 



Section 106.5.3 Expiration, of the IFGC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.5.3 12 Month Expiration  Every permit issued under the
provisions of this Code shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of
issue, unless the application is accompanied by a construction schedule of
specific longer duration, in which instance the permit may be issued for the
term of the construction schedule, with approval of the Code Official.  If
the work has not been completed by the expiration date of the permit, no
further work shall be done until the permit shall have been renewed by the
owner or his or her agent and by payment of the renewal fee as established by
Resolution of the City Council, and provided no changes have been made in
plans or location.  Upon approval, permits may be extended for no more than
two periods not exceeding 180 days each. 



181.11    SECTION 106.5.6 AMENDED - - RETENTION OF CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. 



Section 106.5.6, Retention of construction documents, of the IFGC, is hereby
amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.5.6 Retention of Construction Documents One set of
construction documents shall be retained by the Code Official for a period of
not less than 180 days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as
required by state or local law. 



181.12    SECTION 106.6.2 AMENDED - - FEE SCHEDULE. 



Section 106.6.2 Fee schedule, of the IFGC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.6.2 Fee Schedule Permits shall not be issued until the
fees, as set forth and established by resolution of the City Council, have
been paid to the City of Ankeny.  An amended permit or a supplemental permit
for additional construction shall not be issued until the permit fee(s) for
the additional work has been paid.



181.13    SECTION 106.6.3 AMENDED- - FEE REFUNDS. 



Section 106.6.3, Fee refunds, of the IFGC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 106.6.3 Fee Refunds The Code Official is authorized to
establish a refund policy.



181.14    SECTION 108.4 AMENDED - - VIOLATION PENALTIES. 



Section 108.4, Violation penalties, of the IFGC, is hereby amended by
deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 108.4 Violation Penalties Any person who violates a provision
of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
erects, installs, alters or repairs Fuel Gas work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Code Official, or of a
permit issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.



181.15    SECTION 108.5 AMENDED - - STOP WORK ORDER. 



Section 108.5, Stop Work orders, of the IFGC, is hereby amended by deleting
the last sentence of said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 108.5 Stop Work Order Any person who shall continue any work on
the system after having been served with a stop work order, except such work
as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.



181.16    SECTION 403.5.4 AMENDED - - Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing
(CSST). 



Section 403.5.4, Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing (CSST), of the IFGC, is
hereby amended by deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:



   Section 404.2 Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing  Only Corrugated
Stainless Steel Tubing (CSST) with an Arc Resistant Jacket or Covering System
listed in accordance with ANSI LC-1 (Optional Section 5.16)/CSA 6.26-2016
shall be installed in accordance with the terms of its approval, the
conditions of listing, the manufactures instructions and this code including
electrical bonding requirements in Section 1211.2.  CSST shall not be used
for through wall penetrations from the point of delivery of the gas supply to
the inside of the structure.  CSST shall not be installed in locations where
subject to physical damage unless protected in an approved manner.



181.17    SECTION 403.10 ADDITION - - METALLIC PIPING JOINTS AND FITTINGS. 



Section 403.10.1, Pipe joints, of the IFGC, is hereby amended by adding a new
section as follows:



   Section 403.10.1.1 Welded Pipe Joints  All joints of wrought iron or
steel gas piping larger than two-inch (2") standard iron pipe size and
providing gas pressure of two (2) PSIG or greater shall be welded steel. 
All welded joints shall comply with the State of Iowa requirements and work
shall be performed by certified welders.



(Chapter 181 - Ord. 1913 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 182
EXISTING BUILDING CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IEBC Section


182.01
 
Short Title
 


182.02
 
Adoption of Existing Building Code
 


182.03
 
Amendments, modification, additions and deletions
 


182.04
 
Deletions
 


182.05
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 


182.06
 
Title
 
101.1


182.07
 
General (Building & Zoning Administrator)
 
103.1


182.08
 
Expiration
 
105.5


182.09
 
Plan Review Fees
 
108.2.1


182.10
 
Applicability
 
1401.2




 



182.01   SHORT TITLE. 



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Existing Building Code, and may be
cited as such, and may be referred to herein as this chapter.



182.02   ADOPTION OF EXISTING BUILDING CODE. 



The International Existing Building Code 2015 Edition; published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions
as may be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy of the
International Existing Building Code 2015 Edition, as adopted and a copy of
this chapter are on file in the office of the Code Official.



182.03   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS. 



The International Existing Building Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known as
the IEBC), is amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 182.04 through
182.10.



182.04   DELETIONS. 



The following are deleted from the IEBC and are of no force or effect in this
chapter:



   Section 105.1.1 Annual Permit, Section 105.1.2 Annual Permits Record,
Section 105.2 #1, Section 112 Board of Appeals.



182.05   REFERENCED CODES - - CONFLICTS. 



In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and
Federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply.



182.06   SECTION 101.1 AMENDED - - TITLE. 



Section 101.1, Title, of the IEBC, is hereby deleted and there is enacted in
lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Existing Building Code, hereinafter known as “this code.”



182.07   SECTION 103.1 ADDITION - - GENERAL. 



Sections 103.1, General, of the IEBC, is hereby amended by adding the
following paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator The term Code Official
is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code Official.



182.08   SECTION 105.5 AMENDED - - EXPIRATION. 



Section 105.5 Expiration, of the IEBC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 105.5  12 Month Expiration  Every permit issued under the
provisions of this Code shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of
issue, unless the application is accompanied by a construction schedule of
specific longer duration, in which instance the permit may be issued for the
term of the construction schedule, with approval of the Code Official.  If
the work has not been completed by the expiration date of the permit, no
further work shall be done until the permit shall have been renewed by the
owner or his or her agent and by payment of the renewal fee as established by
Resolution of the City Council, and provided no changes have been made in
plans or location.  Upon approval, permits may be extended for no more than
two periods not exceeding 180 days each. 



182.09   SECTION 108.2 AMENDED - - PLAN REVIEW FEES. 



Section 108.2 Fee schedule, of the IEBC, is hereby established by adding the
following section:



   Section 108.2.1 Fee Schedule Permits shall not be issued until the
fees, as set forth and established by resolution of the City Council, have
been paid to the City of Ankeny.  An amended permit or a supplemental permit
for additional construction shall not be issued until the permit fee(s) for
the additional work has been paid.



182.10   SECTION 1401.2 AMENDED - - APPLICABILITY. 



Section 1401.2, Applicability, of the IEBC, is hereby amended by inserting
the following date:



   Section 1401.2 Applicability 5/6/1965



(Chapter 182 - Ord. 1914 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 183
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE



 



Section Number
 
Title
 
IPC Section


183.01
 
Short Title
 


183.02
 
Adoption of Swimming Pool and Spa Code
 


183.03
 
Amendments, modification, additions and deletions
 


183.04
 
Deletions
 


183.05
 
Referenced Codes -- Conflicts
 


183.06
 
Title
 
101.1


183.07
 
Creation of Enforcement Agency
 
103.1


183.08
 
Expiration
 
105.5.3


183.09
 
Fee Schedule
 
105.6.2


183.10
 
Fee Refunds
 
105.6.3


183.11
 
Violation Penalties
 
107.4


183.12
 
Stop Work Order
 
107.5




 



183.01   SHORT TITLE. 



This chapter shall be known as the Ankeny Swimming Pool and Spa Code, and may
be cited as such, and may be referred to herein as this chapter.



183.02   ADOPTION OF SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE. 



The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code 2015 Edition; published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted in full except for such portions
as may be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy of the
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code 2015 Edition, as adopted, and a copy
of this chapter are on file in the office of the Code Official.



183.03   AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS. 



The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2015 Edition (hereinafter known
as the ISPSC), is amended as hereinafter set out in Sections 183.04 through
183.12.



183.04   DELETIONS. 



The following are deleted from the ISPSC and are of no force or effect in
this chapter:



   Section 105.5.4 Extensions, Section 108 Means of Appeal



183.05   REFERENCED CODES - - CONFLICTS. 



In the event requirements of this code conflict with applicable State and
Federal requirements, the more stringent shall apply.



183.06   SECTION 101.1 AMENDED - - TITLE. 



Section 101.1, Title, of the ISPSC is hereby deleted and there is enacted in
lieu thereof the following section:



   Section 101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Ankeny
Swimming Pool and Spa Code, hereinafter known as “this code.”



183.07   SECTION 103.1 ADDITION - - CREATION OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. 



Sections 103.1, Creation of enforcement agency, of the ISPSC, is hereby
amended by adding the following paragraph to said section:



   Section 103.1 Building and Zoning Administrator The term Code Official
is intended to also mean the Building and Zoning Administrator and his or her
representatives or designees, who are herewith delegated the same powers,
authorities, duties and responsibilities as designated for the Code Official.



183.08   SECTION 105.5.3 AMENDED - - EXPIRATION. 



Section 105.5.3 Expiration, of the ISPSC, is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 105.5.3 12 Month Expiration  Every permit issued under the
provisions of this Code shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of
issue, unless the application is accompanied by a construction schedule of
specific longer duration, in which instance the permit may be issued for the
term of the construction schedule, with approval of the Code Official.  If
the work has not been completed by the expiration date of the permit, no
further work shall be done until the permit shall have been renewed by the
owner or his or her agent and by payment of the renewal fee as established by
Resolution of the City Council, and provided no changes have been made in
plans or location.  Upon approval, permits may be extended for no more than
two periods not exceeding 180 days each.



183.09   SECTION 105.6.2 AMENDED - - FEE SCHEDULE. 



Section 105.6.2 Fee schedule, of the ISPSC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 105.6.2 Fee Schedule Permits shall not be issued until the
fees, as set forth and established by resolution of the City Council, have
been paid to the City of Ankeny.  An amended permit or a supplemental permit
for additional construction shall not be issued until the permit fee(s) for
the additional work has been paid.



183.10   SECTION 105.6.3 AMENDED- - FEE REFUNDS. 



Section 105.6.3, Fee refunds, of the ISPSC, is hereby amended by deleting
said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 105.6.3 Fee Refunds The Code Official is authorized to
establish a refund policy.



183.11   SECTION 107.4 AMENDED - - VIOLATION PENALTIES. 



Section 107.4, Violation penalties, of the ISPSC, is hereby amended by
deleting said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 107.4 Violation Penalties Any person who violates a provision
of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
erects, installs, alters or repairs a pool or spa in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Code Official, or of a
permit issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by law.



183.12   SECTION 107.5 AMENDED - - STOP WORK ORDER. 



Section 107.5, Stop Work Orders, of the ISPSC, is hereby amended by deleting
the last sentence of said section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:



   Section 107.5 Any person who shall continue any work on a pool or spa
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.



(Chapter 183 - Ord. 1915 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 190
ZONING ORDINANCE
DEFINITIONS



 

190.01  Title
 
190.03  Definitions


190.02  Minimum Requirements
 
 



 



190.01    TITLE. 



Chapters 190 through 197 of this Code of Ordinances shall be known and may be
cited and referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance” of the City.



190.02    MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS. 



In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance shall be held to be minimum requirements.  Where this Zoning
Ordinance imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or required by other
provisions of law or by other rules or regulations or ordinances, the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall control.



190.03    DEFINITIONS. 



For the purposes of the Zoning Ordinance, certain terms and words are defined
as follows; the words “used” and “occupied” include the words
“intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied.”



1.   “Accessory building” means a building on the same lot with,
detached from, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal structure, but not including incomplete or inoperable motor
vehicles, recreational vehicles, or trailers.



2.   “Accessory structure” means a structure on the same lot with,
detached from, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal structure, but not including incomplete or inoperable motor
vehicles, recreational vehicles, or trailers.



3.   “Accessory use” means a use on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use.



4.   “Adult entertainment business” means and includes any of the
following:



   A.   “Adult book store” means an establishment having ten
percent or more of its stock in trade in books, films, videos, magazines, or
other periodicals or materials which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical
areas.



   B.   “Adult motel” means a motel wherein material is presented
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas.



   C.   “Adult motion picture arcade” means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained
to show images to five or fewer persons per machine, at any one time; and
where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical
areas.



   D.   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building
used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by emphasis on
matter depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical areas.



   E.   “Sexual encounter center” means any business, agency or
person who, for any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where
three or more persons, not all members of the same family, may congregate,
assemble or associate for the purpose of engaging in sex acts or exposing
specified anatomical areas.



For the purposes of this section, the term “sex acts” means any sexual
contact, actual or simulated, either natural or deviate, between two or more
persons, or between a person and an animal, a penetration of the penis into
the vagina or anus, or by contact between the mouth or tongue and genitalia
or anus, or by contact between the finger of one person and the genitalia of
another person, or by use of artificial sexual organs, or substitute thereof,
in contact with the genitalia or anus.  For the purpose of this section, the
term “specified anatomical area” means and includes the following: human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breasts below the point
immediately above the top of the areola.



5.   “Alley” means a public way, other than a street, twenty feet or
less in width affording secondary means of access to abutting property.



6.   “Alter” or “alteration” means any change, addition, or
modification in construction on or occupancy, including relocation.



7.   “Apartment unit” means a room or suite of rooms in a multiple
dwelling intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family.



8.   “Apartment hotel” means multiple dwelling containing both
dwelling units and guest room units, used for permanent and temporary
occupancy.



9.   “Basement” means any floor level below the first story in a
building, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level
shall be classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a
first story.



10.   “Boardinghouse or rooming house” means a multiple dwelling
containing three but not more than five guestrooms which are used by three
but not more than five guests, where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or
otherwise and complies with all the requirements for multiple dwelling units.



11.   “Building” means any structure designed or intended for the
support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals or property
but not including signs or billboards, towers or swimming pools.



12.   “Building line” means the line parallel to the front lot line
over which no portion of any building foundation may extend and which is a
distance from the front lot line equal to the depth of the front yard
required for the district in which such lot is located.



13.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the
parking of motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides and is
considered as part of the principal building thus subject to all yard
requirements.



14.   “Child day care” means the care, supervision, or guidance of a
child under eighteen years of age by a person other than the parent,
guardian, relative, or custodian for periods less than twenty-four hours per
day, on a regular basis in a place other than the child’s home.



15.   “Child day care center” means a facility providing child day
care for seven or more children for compensation but not defined as a group
day care home.



16.   “Clinic, medical or dental” means a building or buildings in
which physicians, dentists or physicians and dentists and allied professional
assistants are associated for the purpose of carrying on their professions.



17.   “Condominium” means one or more rooms occupying all or part of a
floor or floors in a building of one or more floors or stories, and
notwithstanding whether the rooms are intended for use or used as a residence
or office for the operation of any industry or business, or for any other use
not prohibited by law, where ownership of the general common elements of the
structure, as defined under Chapter 499B of the Iowa Code, is shared by one
or more persons, corporations or other legal entities capable of holding or
owning an interest in real property.



18.   “Convenience-food restaurant” means an establishment whose
business is the sale of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages to the customer
in a ready-to-eat state for immediate consumption either on or off the
premises, whose design or principal method of operation includes both of the
following characteristics:



   A.   Foods, frozen desserts, or beverages are usually served in
edible containers or in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers.



   B.   The customer is not served food at his/her table by an employee
but receives it at a counter, window, or similar facility for carrying to
another location on or off the premises for consumption.



19.   “Convenience store” means an establishment whose principal
business is the sale of a portion of or all of the following: edible
foodstuff, beverages, petroleum products for immediate use in automobiles,
and other consumer goods associated with the sale of such products.



20.   “Deck” means an exterior platform area abutting the wall of a
building, accessible at or from above grade and attached to the ground, that
is uncovered and unenclosed both above and below the exterior platform area.



21.   “Department Director” means director of the department that
administers the building codes, this Zoning Ordinance, and other codes and
ordinances related to the development of the City.  The Department Director
is also the designated Zoning Administrator.



22.   “Dock” means any elevated protrusion intended or used for
purposes of loading and unloading goods, merchandise, cargo, or other
tangible goods.



23.   “Dormitory” means a building used as a group living quarters for
a student body or religious order as an accessory use for a college,
university, boarding school, orphanage, convent, monastery or other similar
institutional use.



24.   “Dwelling” means any building or any portion thereof which is
designed or used exclusively for residential purposes, but not including a
tent, cabin, trailer, mobile home, or recreational vehicle, apartment house,
boardinghouse, or hotel.



25.   “Dwelling, condominium” means a building, or group of buildings,
in which units are owned individually, and the structure, common areas and
facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.



26.   “Dwelling, multifamily” means a residence designed for or
occupied by three or more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities for each.



27.   “Dwelling, attached single-family” means a residence designed
for or occupied by one family only which is erected on a separate lot and is
joined to another such residence on one side by a vertical wall located on
the lot line.  The attached dwelling  has yards on the remaining unattached
sides. 



28.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a residence designed for or
occupied by one family only entirely surrounded by yard on the same lot.



29.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a residence designed for or
occupied by two families only, with separate housekeeping and cooking
facilities for each.



30.   “Family” means an individual or two or more persons related by
blood or marriage or a group of not more than five persons (excluding
servants) who need not be related by blood or marriage living together in a
dwelling unit.  Family specifically includes all persons living in “family
homes” or “elderly family homes” as those terms are defined under,
respectively, Iowa Code Sections 414.22 and 231A.1.



31.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of
streams or rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from
any source.



32.   “Flood elevation” means the elevation floodwaters reach at a
particular site during the occurrence of a specific flood.



33.   “Flood plain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water as a result of a flood.



34.   “Flood plain management” means an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use
of flood plains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
flood control works, floodproofing and flood plain management regulations.



35.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural or
nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including
utility and sanitary facilities which will reduce or eliminate flood damage
to such structures.



36.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those
portions of the flood plains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably
required to carry and discharge floodwaters or flood flows so that
confinement of flood flows to the floodway area will notcumulatively increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one (1’) foot.



37.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the flood plain, other
than the floodway, which can be filled, leveed, or otherwise obstructed
without causing substantially higher flood levels or  flow velocities.



38.   “Foster child care” means care and education of not more than
five children unrelated to the residents by blood or adoption.



39.   “Garage, residential” means a private, enclosed structure
intended for and used for the parking of the private motor vehicles of the
families resident upon the premises.



40.   “Gas station” means any building or premises used for the
following:



   A.   The retail sale of liquefied petroleum products for the
propulsion of motor vehicles and including such products as kerosene, fuel
oil, packaged naphtha, lubricants, tires, batteries, antifreeze, motor
vehicle accessories, and other items customarily associated with the sale of
such products;



   B.   The rendering of services and the making of adjustments and
replacements to motor vehicles, and the washing, waxing, and polishing of
motor vehicles as incidental to other services rendered; and



   C.   The making of repairs to motor vehicles except those of a major
type which are defined to be spray painting, body, fender, clutch,
transmission, differential, axle, spring and frame repairs, major overhauling
of engines requiring the removal of the engine cylinder head or crankcase
pan, repairs to radiators requiring the removal thereof, or complete
recapping or retreading of tires.



41.   “Grade” or “ground level” means the reference plane
representing the average of finished ground level adjoining the building at
exterior walls.  Where the finished ground level slopes away from the
exterior walls, the reference plane shall be established by the lowest points
within the area between the building and the lot line or, where the lot line
is more than six feet from the building, between the building and a point six
feet from the building.



42.   “Group day care” means a private home providing child day care
for more than six, but less than twelve children with no more than six
children at one time being less than six years of age, unrelated to the
residents by blood or adoption.



43.   “Guest” means any person hiring or occupying a room for living
or sleeping purposes.



44.   “Guest room” means any habitable room or rooms used, or intended
to be used, by a guest for sleeping purposes.  Every one hundred square feet
of superficial floor area in a dorm area is a guest room.



45.   “Habitable room” means any room meeting the requirements of this
Zoning Ordinance for sleeping, living, cooking or dining purposes, excluding
such enclosed spaces as closets, pantries, bath or toilet rooms, service
rooms, connecting corridors, laundries, unfinished attics, foyers, storage
spaces, cellars, utility rooms or similar spaces.



46.   “Hard-surfacing” means having a surface of asphalt or Portland
cement pavement,  or such other surfaces as approved by the building
official or inspector, so as to provide a durable and dustless surface. 



47.   “Height” means the vertical distance of a structure other than a
building measured from the average elevation of the finished grade within six
feet of the structure to the highest point of the structure.



48.   “Height of building” means the vertical distance from grade to
the average height of the roof measured to the highest roof surface.



49.   “Home occupation” means any occupation of a service character
which is clearly secondary to the main use of the premises as a dwelling, and
does not change the character thereof or have any exterior evidence of such
secondary use.  This occupation shall be carried on or conducted only by
members of a family residing in the dwelling.



50.   “Hotel” or “motel” means a multiple dwelling containing six
or more guest rooms intended or designed to be used, or which are used,
rented or hired out to be occupied; or which are occupied for sleeping
purposes by guests.



51.   “Junkyard” means any area where waste, discard or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, kept,
stored, or handled, including house-wrecking yards, used lumberyards, and
places or yards for the storage of salvaged house-wrecking materials and
structural steel materials and equipment; but not including areas where such
uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not
including automobile, tractor or machinery wrecking and used-parts yards, and
the processing of used, discarded or salvaged materials as part of
manufacturing operations.



52.   “Kennel, dog” means any premises on which four or more dogs, six
months or older, are kept.



53.   “Landscape buffer” or “open space buffer” means an area
which acts as a buffer between two different zone districts or two  land
uses of different intensity in mixed-use areas that visually separates one
use from another or shields or blocks noise, lights or other nuisances and is
required to include trees and shrubs and may include fences and/or berms.



54.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area and provides such
yards and other open space as are required.  Such lot shall have frontage on
a public street or public way and may consist of the following:



   A.   A single lot of record;



   B.   A portion of a lot of record;



   C.   A combination of complete lots of record and portions of lots
of record; and



   D.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds or plat of
survey.



In no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be
created which does not meet the requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.



55.   “Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at
their intersection.



56.   “Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front
and rear lot lines.



57.   “Lot, double-frontage or through” means a lot having a frontage
on two or more nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.



58.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.



59.   “Lot lines” means the property lines bounding a lot.



60.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is a part of a subdivision
recorded in the office of the Polk County Recorder, or a lot or parcel
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded.



61.   “Lot, reversed-frontage” means a corner lot, the side street
line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the
first platted lot to its rear.



62.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot measured at the building
line and at right angles to its depth.



63.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built, single-family
structure, which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42
U.S.C. Sec. 5403, Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards, and is to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is
not constructed with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be
moved other than for the purpose of moving to a permanent site, and which
does not have any permanently attached wheels or axles to its body or
frame.  A mobile home is not a manufactured home unless it has been
converted to real property and is taxed as a site-built dwelling.  For the
purposes of these regulations, a manufactured home shall be considered the
same as any site-built single-family detached dwelling.



64.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or
reconstructed as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human
habitation by one or more persons.



65.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field or tract of land
upon which two (2) or more occupied mobile homes are situated, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any building, structure, tent,
vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of
such mobile home park.



66.   “Nonconforming structure” means a structure or building the
size, dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision or amendment to the Zoning Ordinance, but which fails by reason of
such adoption, revision or amendment, to conform to the present requirements
of the zoning district.



67.   “Nonconforming use” means a use or activity which was lawful
prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance, but
which fails, by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment, to conform to
the present requirements of the zoning district.



68.   “Nursery school” or “preschool” means a child day care
facility which provides children ages three years through five years, for a
period of time not exceeding three hours per day, programs designed to help
the children develop intellectual skills, social skills and motor skills and
extend their interest and understanding of the world about them.



69.   “Nursing or convalescent home” means a building or structure
having accommodations and where care is provided for invalid, infirm, aged,
convalescent or physically disabled or injured persons, not including insane
and other mental cases, inebriate or contagious cases.



70.   “Occupancy” means the purpose for which a building is used or
intended to be used.  The term shall also include the building or room
housing such use.  Change of occupancy is not intended to include change of
tenants or proprietors.



71.   “Office” means a room or group of rooms used for conducting the
affairs of a business, profession, service, industry, or government.



72.   “Office park” means a tract of land designed and developed for
the location of one or more office buildings and accessory uses, with the
open space and public ways being designed, planned, constructed, and managed
on an integrated and coordinated basis.



73.   “Off-street parking area” means any area containing parking
spaces, driveways or access drives devoted to the parking of motor vehicles
whether free or for compensation.



74.   “Open space buffer” – see “landscape buffer.”



75.   “Outdoor storage” means the storing or safekeeping of any goods,
material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than three days.



76.   “Parking space” means a permanently surfaced area delineated to
define its boundaries either within a structure or in the open, to be
exclusive of driveway areas, except in one and two-family dwelling units. 
The space to be used for the parking of motor vehicles shall adjoin adequate
area for ingress and egress and turning maneuvers which do not encroach on
any public rights-of-way, except when such parking space abuts upon a public
alley.



77.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed projection which has no more
than the bottom three feet of each outside wall area enclosed by a material
other than mesh screens.



78.   “Premises” means any building or group of buildings, whether
attached or unattached, under single ownership and served by common
off-street parking facilities and driveway entrances and exits.



79.   “Preschool” – see “nursery school.”



80.   “Principal use” means the predominant or primary use of land or
structures.



81.   “Public way” means a street, alley or other parcel of land which
has been deeded, dedicated or otherwise permanently appropriated to the
public for public use that is open to the outside air, leads to a street, and
that has both a clear width and height of not less than 10 feet (3048 mm).



82.   “Restaurant” means a business where food and drink is prepared,
served, and consumed primarily within the principal building.



83.   “Rooming house” means the same as boardinghouse.



84.   “Shed” means a detached accessory structure, with no door or
entry wider than six-feet (6), used for shelter or storage of  equipment or
goods, but not for licensed motor vehicles. 



85.   “Sign” means an accessory use depicting a name, identification,
description, display, illustration, structure, device which is affixed to or
painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, or other
allowed outdoor surface or a piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or
business.



86.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the
upper surface of a floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next
above.  It is measured as the vertical distance from top to top of two
successive tiers of beams or finished floor surfaces and, for the topmost
story, from the top of the floor finish to the top of the ceiling joists or,
where there is not a ceiling, to the top of the roof rafters.



87.   “Story, first” or “story above grade plane” means any story
having its finished floor surface entirely above grade plane, except that a
basement shall be considered as a story above grade plane where the finished
surface of the floor above the basement is:



   A.   More than six feet above grade; or



   B.   More than 12 feet above the finished ground level at any point.



88.   “Street” means a public or private thoroughfare which affords
the principal means of access to abutting property.



89.   “Street line” means the right-of-way line of a street.



90.   “Street, private” means any private way which shall be approved
by the Council after recommendation by the Plan and Zoning Commission.



91.   “Street, public” means any thoroughfare or public way which has
been dedicated to the public or deeded to and accepted by the City for street
purposes.



92.   “Street sign” means a sign used to direct and manage traffic or
to identify named roads , generally those that do not qualify as expressways
or highways.  Street signs are most often posted at intersections and
driveways and are usually installed by the City, County or State in discharge
of governmental functions as required by law, ordinance or other governmental
regulation. 



93.   “Structural alterations” means any replacement or changes in the
type of construction or in the supporting members of a sign or building, such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, beyond ordinary
repairs and maintenance.



94.   “Structure” means anything built, constructed or erected with a
fixed location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed
location on the ground.



95.   “Swimming pool” means any structure intended for swimming,
recreational bathing, wading, or aesthetic purposes that is capable of
containing water over 24 inches deep.  This includes in-ground,
above-ground, and on-ground pools, hot tubs, spas, fixed-in-place wading
pools, and landscape ponds, but excludes manmade lakes or ponds created
through the collection of storm water or drainage runoff.



96.   “Use” - Real estate shall be deemed to be used for a commercial
or industrial purpose when the real estate is occupied by any person, firm,
or corporation for any commercial or industrial purpose for three or more
consecutive days, regardless of whether such purpose is carried out through
the use of a temporary or permanent structure or mobile vehicle.  All such
uses must comply with all area and size regulations, including front, side
and rear yard setback requirements, as well as all fencing and screening
requirements.  The temporary use of property for sale of goods or services
by a civic, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit organization for a
period of no more than thirty days shall not be deemed to be a “use”
under this Zoning Ordinance.



97.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building or
structure unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from
thirty-six inches above the general ground level of the graded lot upward. In
measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the depth or width, the least
distance between the lot line and the main building foundation shall be used.



98.   “Yard, buildable area” means the area unencumbered by a required
yard setback and/or easements.



99.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of
the lot and measured between the front lot line and the foundation front of
the main building or any projection thereof other than the projection
exceptions listed in Section 196.03(2). 



100.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of
the lot and measured between the rear lot line and the rear of the building
foundation other than the projection exceptions listed in Section
196.03(2).  On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall be
considered the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.



101.   “Yard, required” (front, rear or side) means the area between a
lot line and the minimum required setback to the building foundation. 
“Yard, side” means a yard extended from the front to the rear yard and
measured between the side lot lines and the main building foundation or
projection exceptions listed in Section 196.03(2).



102.   “Warehouse” means a building used primarily for the storage of
goods and materials.



103.   “Zoning Administrator” means Department Director or designee
and is responsible for the duties assigned to the position in this Zoning
Ordinance. 



104.   “Fireworks Retail Sales Facility” means a retail sales facility
for the sale of First-class Consumer Fireworks as defined in Iowa Code
Section 100.19(1)(c) and/or Second-class Consumer Fireworks as defined in
Iowa Code Section 100.19(1)(e).



(Ord. 1917 – Aug. 17 Supp.)




(Chapter 190 amended by Ord. 1651 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




CHAPTER 191
ZONING ORDINANCE
GENERAL REGULATIONS



 



191.01  Annexation
 
191.11  Height Limitations


191.02  Conformance Required
 
191.12  Building Permits Previously Issued


191.03  Street Frontage Required
 
191.13  Divided Property; Zoning Classification


191.04  Residence Districts; Front Yard
 
191.14  Fences, Walls, and Plantings


191.05  Corner Lots
 
191.15  Minimum Open Space


191.06  Through Lots
 
191.16  Visibility at Intersections


191.07  Accessory Buildings
 
191.17  Screening of Outdoor Storage Areas


191.08  Maintenance of Commercial and Residential  Private Land Held in
Common and/or Open Space Buffers and Easements
 
191.18  Exceptions to Screening Requirements


191.09  Swimming Pool Requirements
 
191.19  Church-Related Preschool and Child Day Care Centers


191.10  Reduction of placeLot or Yard Prohibited
 
 




 



191.01    ANNEXATION. 



All territory which may be annexed to the City shall be considered as lying
in the R-1 District until such classification has been changed by amendment
in accordance with the provisions of Section 196.04 of this Zoning
Ordinance. 



191.02    CONFORMANCE REQUIRED. 



Except as otherwise specified in this Zoning Ordinance, no building or
structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, which does not
comply with all of the district regulations established by this Zoning
Ordinance for the district in which the building or land is located.  To be
built upon, a parcel of land shall be platted or meet the requirements and
criteria in Section 200.07 and Section 200.40 of this Code of Ordinances in
order to be exempted from subdivision by the Council.



191.03    STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED. 



Except as permitted in Section 196.03 of this Zoning Ordinance, all
single-family lots shall abut for at least forty feet on at least one public
street.  All other lots shall have access to public streets either by
abutting directly on them or by public way, provided driveway separations
onto public streets conform to the City standards.



191.04    RESIDENCE DISTRICTS; FRONT YARD. 



In any residence district, there shall be a minimum required front yard as
stated in the yard requirements for that particular district; provided,
however, where lots comprising thirty percent or more of the frontage within
200 feet of either side lot line are developed with buildings at a greater or
lesser setback, the required front yard shall be the average of these
building setbacks and the minimum required front yard for the undeveloped
lots.  In computing the average setback, buildings located on reverse corner
lots or entirely on the rear half of lots shall not be counted.  The
required front yard as computed herein need not exceed 50 feet in any case. 
Exceptions are listed in Section 196.03 of this Zoning Ordinance.



191.05    CORNER LOTS. 



The front yard regulations shall apply to each street side of a corner lot
and the Zoning Administrator shall designate the front yard on a corner
lot.  For corner lots platted or of record prior to March 19, 1959, the side
yard regulations shall apply to the longer street side of the lot except in
the case of reverse frontage where a corner lot fronts a different street
than the lots to the rear of such corner lot.  In this case, there shall be
a side yard on the longer street side of the corner lot of not less than
fifty percent of the front yard required on the lots to the rear of the
corner lot, and no accessory building on said corner lot shall project beyond
the setback line of the lots to the rear; provided this regulation shall not
be so interpreted as to reduce the buildable width of the corner lot facing
the intersecting street to less than 28 feet or prohibit the erection of an
accessory building. 



191.06    THROUGH LOTS. 



The front yard regulations shall apply to each street side of a through lot
for the principal building or structure and the Zoning Administrator shall
designate the front yard of a through lot which shall generally be the yard
adjacent to the local street or the street with the lower classification
designation.  For through lots with a platted landscape or open space buffer
or easement across the designated rear yard, accessory buildings shall be
located outside any easements and visibility triangles and may be located
adjacent to  the edge of the buffer or easement opposite the street
right-of-way.  In zone districts where one and two-family homes are
permitted as a use-by-right and the one and two-family lots are  platted
without a landscape or open space buffer or easement across the designated
rear yard, setbacks for accessory buildings shall be outside any visibility
triangles and easements  and set back a minimum of three (3’) feet fromthe
designated rear property line.  For one-family and two-family residential
lots there shall be no vehicular access to through lots from arterial
streets.  Buildings and structures for other than one-family and two-family
residential lots shall conform to Section 192.02 Site Plan Requirements.



191.07    ACCESSORY BUILDINGS. 



1.   One-family and two-family residence districts and use areas.  No
accessory building in one-family and two-family residential zone districts
and use areas shall be erected in any yard other than a rear yard, except as
provided herein.  All accessory buildings  including garages shall be set
back a minimum of three feet (3) from side and rear lot lines of adjoining
lots in any residential zone district and use area and accessory buildings
except for garages which front an alley shall be setback a minimum of 
five-feet from alley right-of-way lines.  Garages which front an alley in
any residential zone  district or use area shall be set back either seven
feet (7) or a minimum of 18-feet from the alley right-of-way.  Accessory
buildings and structures on corner lots shall conform to front yard setback
regulations on both streets.  (See Section 191.05.)  Accessory buildings on
one and two-family residential lots shall not occupy more than ten-percent
(10%) of the total square footage of the lot.    No single accessory
building for one-family and two-family lots shall exceed 1010 square feet in
size, and all conforming one-family and two-family residential lots shall be
permitted up to 720 square feet of detached accessory building use. 



2.   Accessory buildings for all uses except one and two family uses by
right shall be located in accordance with Section 192.02 Site Plan
Requirements and be as shown on the approved site plan. 



3.   Accessory buildings shall not exceed the height for accessory
buildings specified in the zoning district in which located and in
residential zone districts and use areas shall not exceed the height of a one
story principal building when measured from the ground to the peak of the
roof.   



4.   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no
accessory building shall be used unless the main building on the lot is also
being used.



191.08    MAINTENANCE OF COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL PRIVATE LAND HELD IN
COMMON AND/OR OPEN SPACE BUFFERS AND EASEMENTS. 



1.   Maintenance of commercially and residentially zoned private lands,
storm water basins, open space, and/or open space buffers and easements is
the responsibility of the property owner or a homeowners’ and/or property
owners’ association.



2.    Developments which include common land not dedicated to the City and
not held in single ownership shall have bylaws for a homeowners’ or
property owners’ association fully defining the functions, responsibilities
and operating procedures of the association.  The bylaws shall include but
not be limited to provisions which do the following: 



   A.   Automatically extend membership in the association to all
owners of dwelling or commercial units and/or land within the development;



   B.   Limit the uses of the common property to those permitted by the
final development plan;



   C.   Define for  each owner of a dwelling or commercial unit and/or
land within the development their rights to the use and enjoyment of the
common property and grant each owner said rights;



   D.   Place the responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
common property in the association;



   E.   Define for  every owner of a dwelling or commercial unit
and/or land their voting rights in the association and grant said rights; and



   F.   If the development combines rental and for-sale dwelling and/or
commercial units, state the relationship between the owners’ association
and the renters, and the rights renters shall have to use the common land.



3.   Developments with land held in common shall create and record with
the Polk County Clerk and Recorder a covenant to run with the land, in favor
of the City and all persons having a proprietary interest in any portion of
the development premises, that states the owner or owners of the land or
their successors in interest will maintain in compliance with City ordinances
all interior streets, parking areas, storm water basins and easements, open
space buffers and easements, sidewalks, common land, parks and plantings
which have not been dedicated to and accepted by the City. 



191.09    SWIMMING POOL REQUIREMENTS.



1.   Swimming pools shall be allowed as an accessory use in all zoning
districts unless otherwise specifically prohibited in this Zoning Ordinance.



2.   All swimming pools located in residential districts shall be located
in the side or rear yard and shall be setback a minimum of four feet (4) from
any property line. 



3.   All outdoor swimming pools shall be enclosed by a barrier to prevent
unauthorized access by small children and to provide a degree of security. 
In the case of in-ground pools, this shall be accomplished using a fence or
wall not less than four feet in height located not less than four feet from
each side of such pool.  In the case of aboveground pools, a combination of
fence or wall and the water-enclosing wall of the swimming pool may be used,
provided that the pool is reasonably secure and the effective enclosure
height is not less than four feet.  For all swimming pools, any opening to
the swimming pool shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-latching
device with locking provisions for keeping the gate or door securely closed
at all times when not in actual use.



191.10    REDUCTION OF LOT OR YARD PROHIBITED. 



No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of the Zoning Ordinance shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum required by this Zoning
Ordinance.  No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space, provided about any building, structure or use for the purpose
of complying with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, shall be included
as part of a yard, open space or off-street parking or loading space for
another building, structure or use.  Off-street parking and loading areas
may occupy part of any required yard, subject to the provisions of Section
194.01.



191.11    HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.



The building height limitations of this Zoning Ordinance shall be modified as
follows:



1.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments,
penthouses, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers and spires, radio, cellular communication, or television
towers, or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height
allowed in the zone district in which the structure is located and shall meet
all height requirements stated in the adopted ordinances of the City.



2.   Public, semipublic or private service buildings, hospitals,
sanatoriums, schools, business colleges and related structures, and churches
and temples, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not
exceeding 125 feet, if the building is set back from each property line at
least one foot for each foot of additional building height above the height
limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building is located.



3.   Single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings in the residence
districts may be increased in height by not more than ten feet when two side
yards of not less than 15 feet each are provided, but they shall not exceed
three stories in height.



191.12    BUILDING PERMITS PREVIOUSLY ISSUED. 



Nothing contained in this Zoning Ordinance shall require any change in the
overall layout, plans, construction, size or designated use of any building
or part thereof, for which approvals and required building permits have been
granted before the enactment of the Zoning Ordinance, the construction of
which in conformance with such plans has been started prior to the effective
date of the Zoning Ordinance, and completion thereof has been carried on in a
normal manner and not discontinued for reasons other than those beyond the
builder’s control.



191.13    DIVIDED PROPERTY; ZONING CLASSIFICATION. 



Where one parcel of property is divided into two or more portions by reason
of different zoning district classifications, each of these portions shall be
used independently of the others in its respective zoning classification and,
for the purpose of applying the regulations of this Zoning Ordinance, each
portion shall be considered as if in separate and different ownership.



191.14    FENCES, WALLS, AND PLANTINGS.



1.   Permit Required.  No person shall erect, alter or relocate any
fence, wall, or other vision barrier without first obtaining a building
permit, the fee for which shall be established by resolution of the City
Council. 



2.   Residential fences shall be permitted in any yard in residential
zoning districts or residential use areas. Front and side yards adjacent to a
street in residential zone districts shall be considered front yards and
fences in front yards shall not exceed 48 inches in height if chain link and
42 inches in height for all other fence materials.  On corner lots fences
that exceed 48 inches in height if open chain link and 42 inches in height
for all other fence materials shall conform to principal building setback
requirements.  (See Section 191.05 – Corner Lots.) In side and rear yards,
opaque and/or solid fences or walls shall not exceed six-feet in height, but
fences may extend to eight-feet in height if the portion of  fence higher
than six feet is constructed  with 70% of the surface area open.  Fences in
the designated rear yard of a though lot shall be located no closer to the
street right-of-way than the far edge from the street right-of-way of the
landscape or open space buffer or easement.  No setback is required from the
street-right-of-way for fences six-feet and under in height in the designated
rear yard of through lots  when there is no landscape or open space buffer
or easement.  Residential fences taller than six feet in the designated rear
yard of a through lot with no landscape or open space buffer or easement
shall have a minimum setback of five feet from the property line. (See
Section 191.06 – Through Lots.) All fences shall adhere to the requirements
for visibility at intersections.  (See Section 191.15.)



3.   Fences shall be permitted in any yard in commercial and industrial
zoning districts except that fences or walls shall not in any case exceed
eight feet in height in side and rear yards.  Fences in yards adjacent to
street right-of-way lines on corner and interior lots shall be at the height
and location shown on the approved site plan.  Fences in the designated rear
yard of a through lot shall be located no closer to the street right-of-way
than the far edge from the street right-of-way  of a landscape or open space
buffer or easement or, when there is no buffer or easement, shall be at the
height and location shown on the approved site plan.  All fences shall
adhere to the requirements for visibility at intersections.  (See Section
191.15.)



4.   No hedge, landscape planting or other vegetation shall be permitted
in any district which impedes vision greater than fifty percent of an
imaginary plane, perpendicular to the street, extending the full depth of the
front yard and vertically from a height of 42 inches to ten feet.



5.   Fences of any height shall be permitted in connection with any
agricultural use, provided that the requirements of traffic visibility at
intersections are observed.



6.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to public tennis
courts, public pools, public baseball fields, and any other public
recreational use facility accessible to the public, except where traffic
visibility is impaired.



191.15    MINIMUM OPEN SPACE. 



The total land area devoted to open space, exclusive of one-family and
two-family lots, shall not be less than twenty percent of the gross land area
included in the building lot.  Such open space shall be maintained as
grassed and landscaped areas, interior or exterior malls, pedestrian walks,
and ornamental structures, when part of the landscaping theme.  Open space
shall not include structures or buildings, off-street parking areas, loading
areas and access drives.  Trees and shrubbery shall be provided at a minimum
of one landscape unit per 3,000 square feet of required open space with one
landscape unit consisting of two trees and six shrubs or three trees and
three shrubs.  There shall be a minimum of one landscape unit per building
lot.  Landscape units are in addition to  screen plantings.



191.16    VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS. 



No fence, wall, shrubbery, earthen berm, sign, billboard, or other
obstruction to vision shall be permitted which serves to obstruct vision
between a height of 30 inches and ten feet on any corner lot within a
triangle of 30 feet formed by intersecting street right-of-way lines or, in
the case of interior lots, within a triangle of 20 feet formed by
intersecting driveway edge and street right-of-way lines. 



As an alternative to the 30-foot and 20-foot visibility triangles defined in
the paragraph above, an unobstructed area between a height of 30 inches and
ten feet at intersections formed by intersecting street right-of-way lines or
driveway edge and street right-of-way lines may comply with the sight
distance specifications established by Iowa SUDAS (State Urban Design
Standards Manual) in Chapter 5, Roadway Design, Urban Geometric Design
Criteria if approved by the City.



Reserved



191.17    SCREENING OF OUTDOOR STORAGE AREAS. 



The outdoor storage of materials, equipment, or supplies, when permitted in
any commercial or industrial district, shall be so located or screened,
fenced or landscaped so as to effectively prevent visibility of such storage
from all abutting residential zoning districts or abutting existing
residential uses and public rights-of-way.  Such screening shall be
sufficient if it prevents visibility of such storage area by persons
traveling on public rights-of-way or standing at grade level on the side or
rear lot lines of such property.  Such screening may be accomplished by any
one of the following methods:




1.   Wall or Fence.  Such fence shall not be less than six feet in height
and shall be constructed in such a manner as to effectively accomplish the
requirements of this section.



2.   Landscaped Strip.  Such strip shall be designed and landscaped by a
qualified architect, engineer, or landscape architect; predominant planting
shall be evergreen type trees, shrubs and plants so as to assure year-round
effectiveness.  Density and height of plantings shall be adequate to serve
as a screen.



191.18    EXCEPTIONS TO SCREENING REQUIREMENTS. 



Nothing in this Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed to require screening from
the street side of the outdoor storage of new and used motor vehicles which
are kept for resale to the general public by a licensed dealer.  The
screening of landscape plantings, or any new merchandise or products held for
resale to the general public may be required, and such requirements shall be
determined by the Department Director.  If a property within a commercial
zoning district is put to a residential use subsequent to the establishment
of an outdoor storage area adjacent thereto, this section shall not apply.



191.19  CHURCH-RELATED PRESCHOOL AND CHILD DAY CARE CENTERS. 



Nothing in this Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed to restrict the location or
operation of a child day care center, or preschool, as defined in Section
190.03 of this Zoning Ordinance, if such child day care center or preschool
is operated pursuant to a program conducted by any church, cathedral, temple,
or other similar place of religious worship.




(Chapter 191 amended by Ord. 1651 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




CHAPTER 192
ZONING ORDINANCE
DISTRICT REGULATIONS



 



192.01  District Establishment and Zoning Map
 
192.10  C-2A Central Business Commercial District


192.02  Site Plan Requirements
 
192.11  C-3 Limited Highway Oriented Commercial District


192.03  R-1 One-Family Residence District
 
192.12  M-1 Light Industrial District


192.04  R-2 One-Family and Two-Family Residence District
 
192.13  M-2 Heavy Industrial District


192.05  R-3 Multiple-Family Residence District
 
192.14  M-3 Limited Industrial District


192.06  R-3A Planned Multiple-Family Residence District
 
192.15  PUD Planned Unit Development District


192.07  R-5 Mobile Home Residence District
 
192.16  U-1 Conservation and Public Utility District


192.08  C-1 Neighborhood Retail Commercial District
 
 


192.09  C-2 General Retail, Highway Oriented and Central Business Commercial
District
 
 




 



192.01    DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT AND ZONING MAP.



1.   District Establishment.  In order to carry out the purpose and
intent of this Zoning Ordinance, the area is divided into zoning district
classifications as follows:



R-1   One-Family Residence District



R-2   One-Family and Two-Family Residence District



R-3   Multiple-Family Residence District



R-3A   Planned Multiple-Family Residence District



R-5   Mobile Home Park Residence District



C-1   Neighborhood Retail Commercial District



C-2   General Retail, Highway Oriented, and Central Business Commercial
District



C-2A   Central Business Commercial District



C-3   Limited Highway Oriented Commercial District



M-1   Light Industrial District



M-2   Heavy Industrial District



M-3   Limited Industrial District



PUD   Planned Unit Development District



U-1   Conservation and Public Utility District



2.   Zoning Map.  The boundaries of the districts listed in subsection 1
are indicated upon the official zoning map of the City, which map is made a
part of this Zoning Ordinance by reference to it in this section.  The
official zoning map and all the notations, references and other matters shown
thereon shall be as much a part of this Zoning Ordinance as if the notations,
references, and other matters set forth by said map were all fully described
in this section.  The official zoning map shall be on file in the office of
the City Clerk and shall bear the signature of the Mayor, attested by the
City Clerk, under the certification that this is the official map referred to
in the Zoning Ordinance.



3.   Changes; Ordinance Required.  Changes in the district boundaries or
other matters portrayed in the official zoning map shall be made by ordinance
which shall identify the affected property by legal description, the zoning
district in which it then lies, and the new district to be established for
said property.  The Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the amending
ordinance to the official zoning map.1 



1 See EDITOR'S NOTE at the end of this chapter for ordinances amending the
zoning map.



4.   Adoption of New Zoning Map.  The Council may from time to time adopt
a new official zoning map, which shall supersede the prior official zoning
map, in the event that the official map becomes damaged or destroyed, or for
purposes of clarity due to a number of boundary changes, or to correct
drafting errors or omissions; provided, however, any such adoption shall not
have the effect of amending the original zoning ordinance or any subsequent
amendment thereof.



5.   Boundaries.  Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of
districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall
apply:



   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines
of streets, highways, alleys or other public rights-of-way shall be construed
to follow such centerlines.



   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.



   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits
shall be construed as following City limits.



   D.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be
construed to be midway between the main tracks.



   E.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed
to follow such shorelines and, in the event of change in the shoreline, shall
be construed as following a platted lot line or for unplatted property as
moving with the actual shoreline.



   F.   Boundaries not capable of being determined in the previous
paragraphs shall be as dimensioned on the official zoning maps or, if not
dimensioned, shall be determined by the scale shown on the map.



192.02    SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.



1.   Purpose and Application.  It is the intent and purpose of this
section to establish a procedure which will enable the City to review certain
proposed improvements to property within specified zoning districts of the
City to insure compliance with all applicable zoning, subdivision, and
building regulations.  Site plans in conformance with this section, with the
exception of site plans for one-family and two-family dwellings and their
associated accessory buildings (See Section 197.03), shall be required
whenever any person proposes to place any building, structure or hard
surfacing for which a building permit is required under any other section of
this code, on any tract or parcel of land.



2.   Site Plan Approval Prerequisite to Building Permit and Certificate of
Occupancy and Use Issuance.  No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any structure or hard surfacing that is subject to the
provisions of this section and/or Chapter 156 until a site plan has been
submitted covering the land upon which such structure or hard surfacing is to
be located, and further, approved for such development in accordance with
this section and/or Chapter 156.  No certificate of occupancy and use shall
be issued for such structure or hard surfacing until all terms and conditions
of the approved site plan have been satisfactorily completed or provided for.



3.   Design Standards.  The standards of design provided in this section
are intended to establish criteria for those items that affect the physical
aspect of Ankeny’s environment.  These criteria are not intended to
restrict design; however, they are intended to create a focus on development
that maintains a satisfactory function and appearance within the City.  It
is the intent of these regulations to maintain or enhance neighborhood
character, preserve values, and promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare.



   A.   Site Development.



      (1)   The orientation, alignment, spacing and placement of a
building driveway, parking area and/or service area on the site shall be
compatible with and complimentary to buildings and sites in the neighboring
area.



      (2)   The site shall be planned to be compatible with the
streetscape that is prevalent in the area.



      (3)   The site shall provide for adequate parking and
circulation for vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians.  This includes safe
bicycle and pedestrian movement from public walks to the building and from
parking areas to the building.



      (4)   The site shall have such entrances and exits upon
adjacent streets and such internal traffic circulation pattern as will not
unduly increase congestion or decrease safety on the site or surrounding
public streets.  Studies of the traffic impact shall be provided if deemed
necessary by the  Department Director.



      (5)   Parking areas shall be treated with decorative elements,
building wall extensions, plantings, berms, or other means so as to reduce
their impact on public ways and adjoining properties.



      (6)   Service areas, loading and unloading docks, delivery
areas, dumpsters, outside storage areas and large storm water detention
basins shall be treated with decorative elements, building wall extensions,
plantings, berms, or other means so as to screen them from view from public
ways and adjoining properties.



      (7)   All newly installed utility lines shall be underground
and entry fixtures located away from high use areas or screened in an
approved manner.



      (8)   Exterior lighting, when used, shall enhance the building
design and the adjoining landscape.  All lighting should be appropriate to
the use of the building and surrounding properties with intensity of
illumination limited to its intended use and not as an attraction to the
site.  Lighting shall be directed to eliminate impacts on adjoining sites.



      (9)   The design shall provide adequate provisions for surface
and subsurface drainage.  Storm water detention, drainage and storm sewer
improvements shall be designed to reduce the danger of erosion, flooding,
landslide or other endangerment of surrounding property.



      (10)   Utility connections to water and sanitary sewer lines
shall be designed so as to not overload existing public utility lines. 
Studies of system loading shall be provided if deemed necessary by the
Department Director.



      (11)   Site design should provide open space in areas visible
to the public.  A majority of the required open space should be located in
front and side yards.



      (12)   Landscaping shall enhance architectural features and
contribute to the beauty and utility of a development.  Existing trees
should be protected whenever possible to maintain the maturity of the site.



   B.   Building Design.



      (1)   Buildings shall have good scale and maintain or enhance
the established scale of buildings and sites of neighboring buildings and
sites.



      (2)   Materials selected for buildings shall provide
compatible textures and colors with those of neighboring buildings.



      (3)   Materials selected for buildings shall be compatible
with the architecture of the building.  Materials shall be selected for
suitability to the type of buildings and the design in which they are used. 
Materials should provide for strength and permanence.



      (4)   All mechanical equipment or other utility hardware on
roof, ground or buildings, refuse and waste removal areas, service yards,
storage yards, and exterior work areas shall be screened from or located as
not to be visible from public view, using materials consistent with the
building and site.



      (5)   Multiple buildings on the same site shall provide for
compatible and complimentary design and materials.



   C.   Signs.



      (1)   Every sign shall have good scale and proportion in
relationship to its site and function, as well as the signage and use of
neighboring properties.



      (2)   Building signs shall be designed as an integral
architectural element of the building.



      (3)   Yard signs shall be designed to provide elements
compatible with the building design and architectural elements.  Where pylon
or pole signs are used, pylons or poles shall be concealed using
architectural materials compatible with the building.



      (4)   Each sign shall be designed in a manner not to compete
for attention with signs on adjoining premises.



   D.   Factors for Evaluation.  The following factors and
characteristics, which affect the function and appearance of a development,
will govern the Plan and Zoning Commission’s evaluation of a site plan
submission:



      (1)   Conformance to design standards and other applicable
Code requirements;



      (2)   Location of the buildings, and the relationship to the
development site and neighboring buildings and sites;



      (3)   Layout and utilization of building, parking, driveways,
and open spaces;



      (4)   Architectural character, including scale, style, color,
and type of material, of the building and signage as it relates to the
neighborhood;



      (5)   Circulation, vehicular and pedestrian;



      (6)   Impact on sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage, water,
and street systems.



4.   Submittal Requirements.  All exhibits must be folded if larger than
letter size and submitted at a suitable size and scale to be legible. 
However, large mounting boards, material samples, or other exhibits not
meeting the criteria may be used for Commission presentation.  An adequate
number of color photographs are required to illustrate the site, including
existing features and surrounding buildings.  Photos may also be used to
illustrate installations on other sites that are similar to the applicant’s
proposal.  All required plans, unless waived by the Department Director,
shall include as a minimum the following items of information:



   A.   Site Plan.



      (1)   Date of preparation, north point, and scale.



      (2)   Legal description and address of the property to be
developed.



      (3)   Name, address, and phone number of the record property
owner, the applicant and the person or firm preparing the site plan.



      (4)   The existing and proposed zoning of this and adjoining
sites.



      (5)   All property and street pavement lines, grades, and site
layout dimensions, including street right-of-way widths.



      (6)   The existing and proposed contours, showing areas of
grading/earthwork and soil erosion control practices.  Contours should be at
a minimum of two-foot intervals or as necessary to show drainage.  Where
existing topography is on a slope of less than two percent, either one-foot
contours or spot elevations shall be provided.



      (7)   All existing and proposed utility lines and easements,
including sizes, hydrant locations and coverage, in accordance with the City
of Ankeny standard specifications and subdivision regulations.



      (8)   If parking is involved, show calculations for
determining the required number of off-street parking spaces as required by
the City’s zoning ordinance.  Give the number of spaces actually proposed
and the maximum number of employees, customers, and office vehicles that
would be in each building or unit at any one time.



      (9)   Proposed ingress and egress to the site, sidewalks,
on-site parking areas, parking stalls including those for persons with
disabilities, adjacent streets; delineation of traffic flow with directional
arrows and location of directional signs or other motorist’s aids.



      (10)   All sidewalks, bike paths, loading areas, dividers,
planters, and other similar permanent improvements.



      (11)   Location and type of buffer screens between the parking
area and all adjacent properties and rights-of-way.



      (12)   Delineation of all required yard setbacks.



      (13)   Location, grade and dimensions of all existing and
proposed paved surfaces and all abutting streets and street names.



      (14)   Location of existing trees six inches or larger in
diameter, landslide areas, springs and streams and other bodies of water, and
any area subject to flooding by a one hundred year storm.



      (15)   Location, amount and type of any proposed landscaping,
plantings, fences, walls, or other screening as required by the zoning
regulations and the design standards.



      (16)   The number and type of all existing and proposed
buildings, the units of each, proposed uses for all buildings, and total
floor area of each building.



      (17)   Location and type of any existing or proposed lighting
on the property which illuminates any part of any required yard.



      (18)   Location and type of any existing or proposed signs.



      (19)   Description of size, material, and colors of any
proposed signs and wind stress calculations, if required.



      (20)   A vicinity map at a scale of one inch equals five
hundred feet or larger, showing the general location of the property, and the
adjoining land uses and zoning.



      (21)   Soil tests and similar information, if deemed necessary
by the Department Director, to determine the feasibility of the proposed
development in relation to the design standards.



      (22)   Lot survey, where possible ownership or boundary
problems exist, as determined by the Department Director.



      (23)   Any other information not herein stated above that is
specific to the site plan and deemed necessary by the Department Director.



   B.   Elevation Views.



      (1)   Location, shape and two different exterior elevation
views of all proposed buildings, for the purpose of understanding the overall
design of the structure, materials proposed to be used, the location of
windows, doors, overhangs, projection height, etc., and the grade
relationship to floor elevation, and the number of stories of each proposed
building and of each building to be retained;



      (2)   All freestanding, ground and building signs.



5.   Pre-Application Conference; Application Requirements.



   A.   Whenever any person proposes to apply for a building permit for
other than a one-family or two-family dwelling or related accessory
structure, the applicant shall submit to the City a request for a
pre-application conference.



   B.   The conference shall include the applicant or representative,
the site designer/contractor and the Department Director or designee.  The
purpose of the conference shall be to acquaint the City staff with the
proposed construction and to acquaint the applicant or representative of the
applicant with the procedures and with any special problems that might relate
to such construction.



   C.   The applicant shall furnish a legal description of the platted
real estate certified by a licensed land surveyor at the time of requesting a
pre-application conference.  The conference shall be held within seven days
of such request.



6.   Technical Review Committee Review.  The technical review committee
is the staff committee charged with review responsibility on submittals. 
This committee generates comments on regulations affecting the proposed site
development.  A complete submittal for this meeting would include the
following:



   A.   Fifteen sets of all plans containing the required information;



   B.   Two sets of storm water detention calculations;



   C.   Two sets of complete floor plans and building elevations for
structures being proposed for immediate construction;



   D.   Two sets of any public improvement plan and profiles for any
public improvements being installed with site development;



   E.   One compact disk (CD) in the IBM disk format with a PDF file
that contains all pages of the Site Plan.



   F.   Any other information which might assist the City in making
this review;



   G.   Filing fees as set by Council resolution.



7.   Action on Site Plan.



   A.   The technical review committee shall promptly notify the
applicant in writing of any revisions or additional information needed to
complete the review.  If necessary, the applicant shall make revisions and
resubmit the revised plan to the City for acceptance.  If the site plan
complies with requirements set forth in this section, the applicant’s plan
shall be submitted to the Plan and Zoning Commission for approval,
disapproval or approval subject to conditions.



   B.   Plan and Zoning Commission.  This is the final review step for
a site plan.  A complete submittal would include the following:



      (1)   Fifteen copies of all plans and/or information required
and one compact disk (CD) in the IBM disk format with a PDF file that
contains all pages of the Site Plan;



      (2)   A letter to accompany the presentation that requests 
project approval and describes the project, timetable for construction, and
provides any other information to assist the Commission in making its
decision;



      (3)   Performance bonds for any public improvement being
proposed with the site plan.  See final plat process for more information on
the process required for public improvements if needed with the site plans.



   C.   In the case of disapproval or approval subject to conditions,
the Plan and Zoning Commission shall indicate the reasons therefor and shall
return a copy of the plan to the applicant for revisions in accordance with
action taken.  The applicant shall then submit the revised plan for review
by the Technical Review Committee and if the site plan complies with the
requirements of this section, the site plan shall be submitted for
certification by the Plan and Zoning Commission.



   D.   The City shall retain the duly certified original in the
City’s permanent files.



8.   Appeals.



   A.   The applicant may, upon notice to the City Council, appeal in
whole or in part any determination or action of the Plan and Zoning
Commission made within the scope of this section.  Appeal shall be made
without cost by written notification of the appeal received by the Clerk
within 90 days after the date of the action from which appeal is sought. 
The Clerk shall place the matter on the agenda of the next regular meeting of
the City Council, provided such appeal is filed at least ten days prior to
such meeting.



   B.   The City Council shall decide all appeals within 30 days after
written notification of the appeal has been received by the Clerk, provided
that the appellant may agree to a longer period not to exceed 60 days after
the written notification of the appeal has been received by the Clerk. 
Failure to decide the appeal within such period shall have the effect of
overturning the Plan and Zoning Commission’s disapproval and approving the
site plan as appealed.



   C.   At the City Council’s meetings, the appealing party or
parties shall be presented a reasonable opportunity to present their views. 
A four-fifths vote of the Council shall be necessary to overturn or modify
the action of the Plan and Zoning Commission.



   D.   A site plan that has been denied by the Plan and Zoning
Commission or City Council may be amended and resubmitted by the applicant to
the City, pursuant to the terms of this section, upon payment of appropriate
fees.



9.   Validity of Approval.  A site plan shall become effective upon
certification of approval by the Plan and Zoning Commission.  In the event
that an appeal is filed, a site plan shall not become effective until all
appeals have been decided.  The approval of any site plan required by this
section shall remain valid for two years after the date of approval, after
which time the site plan shall be deemed null and void if the development has
not been established or actual construction commenced.  For the purpose of
this section, “actual construction” means that a building permit has been
issued and the permanent placement of construction materials has started and
is proceeding without undue delay.  Preparation of plans, securing financial
arrangements, letting of contracts, grading of property, or stockpiling of
materials on the site shall not constitute actual construction.



10.   Site Plan Enforcement.  Failure to comply with and maintain the
approved site plan, unless another site plan has been submitted in accordance
with this section, shall be considered a violation of the Zoning Ordinance.



11.   Site Plan Amendment.  Any approved site plan may be amended in
accordance with the standards and procedures established herein, including
payment of fees; provided, the Department Director may waive such procedures
for those minor changes listed in this section.  Such minor changes shall
not be made unless the prior written approval for such changes is obtained
from the Department Director.  No fees shall be required for such minor
changes as follows:



   A.   Moving building walls within the confines of the smallest
rectangle that would have enclosed each original approved building;
relocation of building entrances or exits, shortening of building canopies;



   B.   Changing to a more restrictive commercial or industrial use,
provided there is no reduction in the amount of off-street parking as
originally approved; this does not apply to residential uses;



   C.   Changing angle of parking or aisle, provided there is no
reduction in the amount of off-street parking as originally approved;



   D.   Substituting plant species, provided a nursery or landscape
architect certifies the substituted species is similar in nature and
screening effect;



   E.   Changing type and design of exterior lighting fixtures,
provided a certified engineer or architect certifies there will be no change
in the intensity of light at the property boundary;



   F.   Increasing peripheral yards.



12.   Applicability to Existing Development.  The requirements of this
section do not apply to the placement of any structure for which building
permits have been issued as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance
codified in this section; provided, if such building permit shall expire,
then a new building permit shall not be issued until the requirements of this
section have been met; and provided further, if an existing structure is to
be reconstructed, enlarged, expanded or otherwise increased in an amount
equal to or greater than the expansions listed below, then the provisions of
this section still apply:



   A.   In the case of building uses twenty-five percent or greater of
its existing ground coverage and/or total floor space;



   B.   In the case of non-building uses or non-building portion of
uses, twenty-five percent or greater of the existing non-building area of the
site development.



192.03    R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT. 



The R-1 District is intended and designed to provide for certain low-density
residential areas of the City, now developed primarily with one-family
detached dwellings, and to provide for areas where residential development
seems likely to occur.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the R-1 District:



   A.   One-family dwellings.



   B.   Churches, cathedrals, temples and similar places of worship,
provided that all principal buildings are set back a minimum of 35 feet from
all property lines.



   C.   Public and parochial schools, elementary and secondary and
other educational institutions having an established current curriculum the
same as ordinarily given in City public schools, but excluding boarding
schools, nursery schools and child care centers, provided that all principal
buildings are set back a minimum of 35 feet from all property lines.



   D.   Fire stations, libraries, city halls, police stations or other
buildings owned by the City and used for any public purpose, including its
use by any bona fide civic group, service club or merchants, group, may be
permitted by the Council in an R-1 zoning district, or in any other zoning
district, after notice and hearing pursuant to Section 362.3, Code of Iowa. 
Notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the record owners of all real estate
lying within 250 feet of the boundaries of the tract of real estate to be put
to such use, the notice to be mailed no less than seven days prior to the
hearing.



   E.   Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, golf courses, and recreation
areas.



   F.   Agricultural uses, including nurseries and truck gardens,
provided that no offensive odors or dust are created and that no retail sales
are permitted on the premises.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the R-1
District are as follows:



   A.   Uses of land or structures customarily incidental and
subordinate to one of the permitted principal uses, unless otherwise excluded.



   B.   Private garage or carport; garden houses; greenhouses; tool
houses; playhouses and accessory recreational facilities.



   C.   The taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident
family, provided the total number of boarders and roomers does not exceed two
per building.



   D.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
which buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work, or shall be converted to an approved permitted use.



   E.   Temporary use of a dwelling structure within a new subdivision
for use as a job office and real estate office for the subject subdivision,
which use shall terminate upon completion or abandonment of the project.



   F.   Signs as regulated in Chapter 195.



   G.   Child day care for six or fewer children.



3.   Size and Area Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the R-1 District subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Lot Area:  10,200 square feet (one acre where public sewer and
water are not available);



   B.   Lot Width:  85 feet;



   C.   Front Yard:  35 feet;



   D.   Side Yards:



One story:



   Total side yard – 18 feet



   Minimum on one side – 8 feet



More than one story:



   Total side yard – 20 feet



   Minimum on one side – 10 feet



Churches and schools – 35 feet on each side.



   E.   Rear Yard:  35 feet;



   F.   Maximum Height:



Principal building, if dwelling – 35 feet



Principal building, if other than dwelling – 45 feet



Garage – 14 feet



Accessory building, other than garage – 12 feet;



   G.   Maximum Number of Stories:



Principal building – 3 stories



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 194.01.



192.04    R-2 ONE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT. 



The R-2 District is intended and designed to provide for certain low-density
residential areas of the City now developed with one-family and two-family
dwellings, and to provide for areas where similar residential development
seems likely to occur.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the R-2 District:



   A.   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.



   B.   One-family and two-family dwellings.



   C.   Conversions of one-family dwellings into two-family dwellings
in accordance with the lot area, frontage, height, and yard requirements of
this section.



   D.   Subdivision of a duplex lot into two lots when a conforming
two-family attached dwelling is divided by a vertical party wall with a
common lot line under the vertical party wall provided one side yard, the
front yard, and the rear yard setbacks are met; a party wall agreement is
recorded with the Polk County Clerk and Recorder;  and all utility,
building, and life safety codes are in compliance.   



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the R-2
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-1 District.



   B.   Home occupations, provided that there is conformance to the
following:



      (1)   Such use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling
and solely by members of the family residing in the same dwelling, and shall
not exceed one-half of the floor area of one floor.



      (2)   No exterior indications of the home occupation shall be
permitted.



      (3)   Such use shall not require mechanical equipment not
customary in dwellings or cause or produce unreasonable noise, vibration,
smoke, dust, odors, heat, or glare, or in any way be detrimental to the
neighborhood.



      (4)   Such use shall not substantially increase traffic in the
neighborhood.



   C.   Group day care homes, subject to the following provisions:



      (1)   There is provided for each child a minimum of 75 square
feet of usable outdoor play space, which space shall be confined to the rear
yard of the property and entirely enclosed by a fence of not less than 42
inches in height; and



      (2)   There is provided adequate space for the dropping off
and picking up of children with no adverse impact on the surrounding
properties.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the R-2 District, subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03:



   A.   Lot Area:



      One-family dwelling – 8,500 square feet;



      Two-family dwelling – 10,500 square feet.



   B.   Lot Width:



      One-family detached dwelling – 70 feet;



      One-family attached dwelling –  40 feet;



      Two-family attached dwelling – 85 feet.



   C.   Front Yards: 



      Residential – 30 feet.



      Churches and Schools – 35 feet.



   D.   Side Yards:



One story:



   Total side yard – 15 feet



   Minimum on one side – 7 feet



   Minimum for the attached dwelling open side yard – 7.0 feet



More than one story:



   Total side yard – 17 feet



   Minimum on one side – 8 feet



   Minimum for the attached dwelling open side yard – 8.0 feet



Churches and schools – 35 feet on each side.



   E.   Rear Yard:  35 feet.



   F.   Maximum Height: 



Principal building if dwelling – 35 feet.



Principal building, if other than dwelling – 45 feet.



Garage – 14 feet.



Accessory building, other than garage – 12 feet.



   G.   Maximum Number of Stories: 



Principal building – 3 stories.



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 194.01
of this Zoning Ordinance.



192.05    R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT. 



The R-3 District is intended and designed for certain medium-density
residential areas of the City now developed with one-family, two-family and
multiple-family dwellings, and for areas where similar residential
development seems likely to occur.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the R-3 District:



   A.   Any use permitted in the R-2 District.



   B.   Multiple dwellings including row dwellings consisting of not
more than six units in a continuous row, and condominium dwellings.



   C.   Apartment hotels, provided that not more than thirty percent of
all dwelling units may be used for transient occupancy.



   D.   Boardinghouses and rooming houses.



   E.   Institutions of a religious, educational, or philanthropic
nature, including libraries.



   F.   College and universities, both public and private, including
administrative buildings, classrooms, dormitories, athletic facilities, and
similarly related structures, but excluding commercial trade schools and
business colleges.



   G.   Nursing, convalescent and retirement homes.



   H.   College fraternities and sororities if recognized by the local
college or university.



   I.   Private clubs, lodges or veterans organizations, excepting
those holding a beer permit or liquor license.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the R-3
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-2 District.



   B.   Beauty parlors and barbershops when conducted solely by
resident occupants in their bona fide and primary residence, provided that
not more than twenty-five percent of one floor shall be used for such
purpose. 



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the R-3 District, subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and  the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Lot Area:



One-family detached dwelling – 8,000 square feet



One-family attached dwelling – 5,000 square feet



Two-family dwelling – 10,000 square feet



Multiple-family dwelling or other permitted use containing three dwelling
units – 12,500 square feet, and an additional 1,500 square feet for each
dwelling unit thereafter.



   B.   Lot Width:



One-family detached dwelling – 65 feet



One-family attached dwelling – 40 feet



Two-family dwelling – 75 feet



Multiple-family dwelling and other permitted uses – 100 feet



Row dwelling – 85 feet minimum for up to three units, and 25 feet for each
additional unit.



   C.   Front Yard: 



Residential – 30 feet



Churches and schools – 35 feet



   D.   Side Yards:



One- and two-family dwelling units:



One story:



   Total side yard – 15 feet



   Minimum on one side – 7 feet



   Minimum for an attached dwelling open side yard – 7 feet



More than one story:



   Total side yard – 17 feet



   Minimum on one side – 8 feet



   Minimum for an attached dwelling open side yard – 8 feet



Multiple-family dwelling units:



One story:



Total side yard – 20 feet;



Minimum on one side – 8 feet;



More than one story and less than three stories:



Total side yard – 22 feet;



Minimum on one side – 9 feet;



Three stories and more up to 45 feet



Total side yard – 24 feet;



Minimum on one side – 10 feet;



Structures above 45 feet - See height regulations (paragraph F of this
subsection).



Churches and schools:  35 feet on each side



   E.   Rear Yard:  35 feet plus one foot for each foot of building
above 35 feet.



   F.   Maximum Height:



Principal building – 45 feet; except that for each foot that the building
or a portion of it is set back beyond the required front, side and rear
yards, one foot may be added to the height limit of such building or portion
thereof.  No building, however, shall exceed 125 feet.



Garage – 14 feet



Accessory building, other than garage – 12 feet.



   G.   Maximum Number of Stories:



Principal building – no limitation



Accessory building – one story



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 194.01
of this Zoning Ordinance.



192.06    R-3A PLANNED MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT. 



The R-3A District is intended to provide for the orderly development or
redevelopment of tracts of land on a unit basis in order to allow a greater
flexibility of land use and building locations than is allowed in the
conventional R-3 District.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the uses of structures or land
permitted in the R-3 District shall be allowed.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  All accessory uses permitted in and as
allowed in the R-3 District shall be permitted.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  Permitted lot area and yard and height
requirements shall be as set out below, which shall prevail over conflicting
requirements of the R-3 District or the Subdivision Ordinance of the City.



   A.   The minimum lot and yard requirements of the R-3 District shall
not apply, except that the minimum front yard specified in said district, or
suitable screening or buffering, shall be provided around the boundaries of
the development.  In the absence of an appropriate physical barrier, the
Council and Commission may require that open space or screenings be located
along all or a portion of the development boundaries.  The height
requirements of the R-3 District shall apply.



   B.   Spaces of off-street parking and loading shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of Section 194.01 of this Zoning Ordinance.



   C.   All public streets, water mains, sanitary sewer, and storm
sewer facilities shall comply with appropriate ordinances and specifications
of the City.



   D.   Any land gained within the development because of the
clustering of dwelling units or structures as permitted in this section may
be dedicated to the City or retained in private ownership as common land. 
The dedication of land to the City shall be referred to the park board for
recommendation and report.  Common land, as used in this section, refers to
land retained in private ownership for the use of the residents of the
development or to land dedicated to the general public.



   E.   The maximum number of dwelling units per acre shall not exceed
the maximum allowed in the R-3 District.



4.   Petition to Develop; Preliminary Site Plan Required.  The owner or
owners of any tract of land may petition the Council, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 196.04 of this Zoning Ordinance, for a change to the
R-3A zoning district classification.  Said petition shall be accompanied by
15 copies of the preliminary site plan of the proposed development, showing
in schematic form the location of all the following:



   A.   Buildings and uses, the height and exterior design of typical
dwellings and the number of dwelling units in each;



   B.   Parking areas;



   C.   Access drives;



   D.   Streets abutting or within the proposed development;



   E.   Walks;



   F.   Site topographic features;



   G.   Landscaping and planting areas;



   H.   Required peripheral yards;



   I.   Common land, recreation areas and parks;



   J.   Existing and proposed utilities and easements.



5.   Commission Review.  The petition and all attachments shall be
referred to the Plan and Zoning Commission for study and report after public
hearing.  The Commission shall review the conformity of the proposed
development with the standards of the comprehensive plan and with recognized
principles of civic design, land use planning, and landscape architecture. 
After public hearing, the Commission may approve or disapprove the
preliminary plan and request for rezoning as submitted, or require that the
petitioner amend the plan to preserve the intent and purpose of this Zoning
Ordinance.



6.   Council Review.  The petition and preliminary plan along with the
Commission’s recommendations on the request for rezoning shall then be
referred to the Council.  The Council, after public hearing, may approve or
disapprove the preliminary plan and request for rezoning, as reported, or may
require such changes as are necessary to preserve the intent and purpose of
this Zoning Ordinance.



7.   Final Site Plan and Final Plat Required.



   A.   If the Council approves a preliminary plan and request for
rezoning, the applicant shall submit 15 copies of a final site plan and one
compact disk (CD) in the IBM disk format with a PDF file that contains all
pages of the R-3A Final Site Plan, showing in detail the location of all the
following:



      (1)   Buildings and uses, the height and exterior design of
typical dwellings and the number of dwelling units in each;



      (2)   Parking areas;



      (3)   Access drives;



      (4)   Streets abutting or within the proposed development;



      (5)   Walks;



      (6)   All proposed walls and fences;



      (7)   Landscaping and plant material;



      (8)   Required peripheral yards;



      (9)   Common land, recreation areas, and parks;



      (10)   Existing and proposed utilities and public easements;



      (11)   Storm and sanitary sewer lines;



      (12)   Water mains.



      (13)   Any additional information the Department Director
determines is required to evaluate the proposed R-3A plan.



   B.   If the proposed development includes common land which will not
be dedicated to the City, the final site plan shall be accompanied by the
documents as required in subsection 191.08. 



   C.   A final plat shall be submitted with the final site plan.  The
plat shall show building lines, lots, and/or blocks, common land, any park
land, streets, easements and other applicable items required by Chapter 200
Subdivision Regulations of this Code of Ordinances.  Following approval of
the final plat by the Commission and Council, the plat shall be recorded with
the Polk County Clerk and Recorder.



8.   Final Site Plan Approval .



   A.   The final site plan and required documents shall be reviewed by
the Commission for compliance with the provisions set forth in subsection 3
of this section and substantial compliance with the preliminary site plan. 
The Commission’s recommendations and report on the final development plan
shall be referred to the Council.  The Council shall review the final site
plan and approve it if it complies with the provisions set forth in
subsection 3 and is in substantial compliance with the preliminary site plan.



   B.   In the event that the owner or owners fail to submit a final
site plan in substantial compliance with the preliminary site plan within two
years after Council approval of the preliminary plan, the Council may, on its
own motion, cause the property to be rezoned to its original classification
in accordance with the provisions of Section 196.04 of this Zoning Ordinance.



   C.   No building permits shall be issued for any structure within
the district to be constructed in variance with the final site plan, unless
specifically authorized by appropriate Council resolution.



9.   Development; Single-Family Dwellings.  In areas of the proposed
development which will be developed with unattached, single-family dwellings
only, the owner may designate arrangements of lots and/or blocks to be
developed in accordance with R-1, R-2, or R-3 District zoning requirements. 
Such designation shall be noted on the preliminary site plan, final site
plan, and the final plat.  Said property shall be developed in accordance
with the requirements of the zoning district specified, and it shall not be
necessary to show the locations of buildings, garages, parking areas, access
drives, landscaping areas, walls, patios, and/or fences on the preliminary
site plan, or on the final site plan for designated areas. 



192.07    R-5 MOBILE HOME RESIDENCE DISTRICT. 



The R-5 District is intended and designed to provide for certain
medium-density residential areas of the City now developed with mobile home
parks, which by reason of their design and location are compatible with
surrounding residential areas and areas where similar development seems
likely to occur.



1.   Occupancy Outside Park Restricted.  It is unlawful to use or occupy
a mobile home as a dwelling place outside a mobile home park, unless such
mobile home has been converted to real estate as provided by State law and
meets with all the requirements of the building, plumbing, health, sanitary,
electrical, and zoning ordinances of the City.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the R-5 District. 



   A.   Any use permitted in the R-2 District.



   B.   Mobile home park, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection 5 of this Section 192.08.   



3.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the R-5
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-2 District.



   B.   Service buildings as required by subsection 5 below. 



4.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the R-5 District, subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance.



   A.   For any permitted use excepting a mobile home park, the minimum
requirements shall be the same as those set out for the R-2 District.



   B.   For any mobile home park, the requirements shall be as follows:



      (1)   The minimum total area shall be three (3) acres.



      (2)   Each yard abutting on a public street shall be
considered a front yard and shall be a minimum of 50 feet.



      (3)   All other yards, whether side or rear, shall be a
minimum of 50 feet when adjacent to any other R district and 30 feet when
adjacent to a C or M district.



      (4)   The minimum mobile home space excluding yard
requirements shall measure at least 50 by 80 feet.



      (5)   Mobile homes shall be located on each space so that
there will be at least a 20-foot clearance between each mobile home; a
10-foot open space between the mobile home, including any permanently
enclosed appendage and any driveway, walkway or mobile home space boundary;
and a 10-foot open space at the rear of the mobile home.



5.   Mobile Home Park Storm Shelters.



   A.   General Requirements.  Every mobile home park of ten or more
mobile home spaces which is constructed after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this section shall be provided with above or
below-grade storm shelters which shall: 



      (1)   Have a minimum floor area of seven square feet (7 SF)
for each mobile home space in said mobile home community;



      (2)   Be designed by a licensed structural engineer or
architect and built in accordance with plans as approved by the City
Engineer, Building Official or licensed structural engineer or architect;



      (3)   Be designed and constructed to meet all Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) requirements and guidelines if the shelter
is located in a flood plain;



      (4)   Be designed and constructed to meet the minimum
lighting, ventilation and exiting requirements of the applicable City and
State currently adopted construction and installation codes;



      (5)   Be designed and constructed to meet all applicable
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA);



      (6)   Be located no farther than 1,320 linear feet from the
furthest mobile home space in the mobile home community;



      (7)   Provide area for the parking of cars of residents who
drive to the facility.  This is not intended to require a structure built
solely as a shelter to provide a paved parking lot. 



   B.   Additions to Existing Mobile Home Parks.  For any addition of
ten or more mobile home spaces to any existing mobile home park, a storm
shelter which complies with the general requirements of paragraph A of this
subsection shall be provided to serve such additional spaces.  For any
addition of fewer than ten mobile home spaces to an existing mobile home park
which otherwise complies with the requirements of subparagraph (1) or (6) of
paragraph 5A, there is no requirement that an additional shelter be provided
to serve such additional spaces.  Provided, however, when two or more such
additions of fewer than ten mobile home spaces results in a cumulative
addition of ten or more mobile home spaces to a mobile home park which
otherwise complies with the requirements of said subparagraphs, a storm
shelter which complies with the general requirements of paragraph 5A of this
subsection shall be provided to serve such additional spaces. 



   C.   Restroom Facilities.  Restroom facilities in required storm
shelters are not mandatory.  When restrooms are installed, toilets may be
either flush-type operating from normal water supply, chemical, or other
approved types.



   D.   Access to Shelters.  The mobile home park owner, or such
owner’s designated agent or representative, shall be responsible for making
the storm shelter accessible and usable in times of need.  It is unlawful
for any required storm shelter to be used for storage purposes if such
storage reduces the minimum floor area available for shelter of persons below
the requirements of paragraph 5(A)(1) of this section.



   E.   Existing Nonconforming Mobile Home Parks.  Any mobile home
park of ten or more mobile home spaces which has an existing above or
below-grade storm shelter as of the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this section which does not conform with the requirements of this section,
shall be deemed a nonconforming mobile home park with regard to the
requirements for storm shelters and may continue to exist as a nonconforming
mobile home park for so long as said existing shelter remains in place and
usable; provided, however, that any mobile home spaces added to such park
after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section shall
require storm shelters as provided in paragraph 5B of this section.



6.   Petition to Develop.



   A.   Each petition for a change to the R-5 Zoning district
classification submitted to the Council shall be accompanied by a mobile home
park plan.  Said plan shall show each mobile home space, the water,
electrical and sewer lines or septic tank location serving each trailer
space, the location of garbage cans, water hydrants, service buildings,
driveways, walkways, recreation areas, required yards, parking facilities,
lighting, and landscaping.



   B.   The plan shall be considered by the Plan and Zoning Commission
and the Council, who may approve said plan or require such changes thereto as
are deemed necessary to effectuate the intent and purpose of this section. 
 



192.08    C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD RETAIL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.



The C-1 District is intended to provide for the convenience shopping of
persons living in neighborhood residential areas and for general uses and
activities of a retail and personal service character.  Only those uses are
permitted which are necessary to satisfy the local needs which occur so
frequently as to require commercial facilities in proximity to residential
areas.  In addition, low-intensity business and professional offices are
permitted.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the C-1 District:



   A.   Any use permitted in the R-3 District.



   B.   Retail businesses or service establishments, such as the
following:



      (1)   Antique shops,



      (2)   Apparel shops,



      (3)   Art shops,



      (4)   Automotive stores for the retail sale of automotive
parts, supplies and accessories; provided, that all merchandise sold or
services performed shall be within an enclosed building or structure, and
specifically excluding body and fender shops, automotive repair shops, and
junk shops or junkyards,



      (5)   Baby and children stores,



      (6)   Bakeries or bakery outlets - retail sales only,



      (7)   Banks, savings and loan associations, and similar
financial institutions,



      (8)   Bicycle shops, sales and repairs;



      (9)   Bookstores,



      (10)   Camera stores,



      (11)   Clothes cleaning and laundry pickup stations,



      (12)   Collection offices of public utility companies,



      (13)   Confectionery stores, including ice cream or snack bars,



      (14)   Dairy stores - retail only,



      (15)   Dance studios and physical culture establishments,



      (16)   Delicatessens,



      (17)   Drugstores,



      (18)   Dry goods stores,



      (19)   Florist shops and greenhouses,



      (20)   Funeral homes and mortuaries,



      (21)   Furniture stores,



      (22)   Gas stations, including minor automobile repairs as
accessory but not principal use,



      (23)   Gift shops,



      (24)   Grocery stores including supermarkets,



      (25)   Hardware stores,



      (26)   Hobby shops,



      (27)   Household appliances sales and repair,



      (28)   Jewelry stores and watch repair shops,



      (29)   Key shops,



      (30)   Launderettes, coin-operated dry-cleaning
establishments, and dry-cleaning or pressing establishments using only
nonflammable solvents,



      (31)   Locker plants for storage and retail sales only,



      (32)   Leather goods stores,



      (33)   Music stores,



      (34)   Music studios,



      (35)   Paint and wallpaper stores,



      (36)   Photographic studios,



      (37)   Post office substations,



      (38)   Radio and television sales and repair shops,



      (39)   Restaurants,



      (40)   Shoe and hat repair shops,



      (41)   Sporting goods stores,



      (42)   Tailor and dressmaking shops,



      (43)   Theaters,



      (44)   Toy stores,



      (45)   Variety stores,



      (46)   Bowling alleys,



      (47)   Taverns and lounges, provided that such establishments
are not located within 300 feet from a church, school or R-1 zoning district;
and provided further, that the tavern or lounge is housed in a building or
shopping center which is occupied by other retail businesses or service
establishments.



      (48)   Preschool and child day care centers, subject to the
following provisions:



a.   The childcare center/preschool shall have 35 square feet per child of
usable indoor floor space maintained in a clean and sanitary manner; when
floor space occupied by cribs is counted as usable floor space, there shall
be 40 square feet of floor space per child in those rooms.  Kitchens,
bathrooms, and halls may not be counted in the square footage per child or
used as regular program space.



b.   There shall be 75 square feet of outdoor recreation area per child
using the space at any given time.  Such space shall be located in the side
or rear yard and be totally enclosed by a fence of no less than 42 inches in
height.



c.   There shall be adequate off-street area for traffic circulation
allowing child drop-off and pick-up activity entirely in the property.



   C.   Combinations of the above uses.



   D.   Business and professional offices supplying commodities or
performing services primarily for residents of the neighborhood.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the C-1
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory uses permitted in the R-3 District.



   B.   Storage of merchandise incidental to the principal use, but not
to exceed forty percent of the floor area used for such use.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the C-1 District subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Lot Area:  Same as required in the R-3 District for
residential uses.  No minimum requirement for any other permitted uses.



   B.   Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit:  Same as required in R-3 District.



   C.   Lot Width:  Same as required in R-3 District for residential
uses.  No minimum requirement for any other permitted uses.



   D.   Front Yard:  35 feet.



   E.   Side Yards:  Same as required in R-3 District for residential
uses.  No minimum requirements for any other permitted uses, except when
adjoining any R district, in which case, 25 feet.  Any side yard adjoining
an R district shall be buffered by use of landscaping, walls, or fences to
effectively screen the commercial use from the adjoining R district.



   F.   Rear Yard:  40 feet.  Any rear yard adjoining an R district
shall be buffered by use of landscaping, walls, or fences to effectively
screen the commercial use from the adjoining R district.



   G.   Maximum Height:  35 feet.



   H.   Maximum Number of Stories: 



Residential uses – 3 stories;



All other permitted uses – 2 stories.



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 194.01
of this Zoning Ordinance.



192.09    C-2 GENERAL RETAIL, HIGHWAY ORIENTED, AND CENTRAL BUSINESS
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. 



The C-2 District is intended to provide for major retail shopping areas
outside the downtown area.  These districts include, as well, much of the
strip commercial property existing along the major streets and highways of
the City.  The uses permitted are intended to accommodate both the general
retail consumer and the needs and services of the automobile-traveling
consumer.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the C-2 District:



   A.   Any use permitted in the C-1 District.



   B.   Retail, service or recreational uses, such as the following:



      (1)   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics or kennels,
provided that any exercising runway is at least 200 feet from any R District
boundary.



      (2)   Automobile accessory stores.



      (3)   Automobile, trailer, motorcycle, boat and farm implement
establishments for display, hire, rental and sales (including sales lots);
including, as incidental to these major uses, all repair work in connection
with their own or customers’ vehicles, but not including uses in which the
major source of revenue is from body and fender work.  In addition, this
paragraph shall not be construed to include automobile, tractor or machinery
wrecking and rebuilding, and used parts yards.



      (4)   Ballrooms and dancehalls.



      (5)   Billiard parlors and pool halls.



      (6)   Bookbinding.



      (7)   Bowling alleys.



      (8)   Business or secretarial schools or colleges, commercial
trade schools, or other commercially operated schools for adults.



      (9)   Carpenter and cabinet-making shops for retail custom
work.



      (10)   Commercial baseball fields, swimming pools, skating
rinks, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, trampoline centers and
similar recreational uses and facilities.



      (11)   Department stores.



      (12)   Drive-in restaurants.



      (13)   Exterminator sales.



      (14)   Drive-in theaters.



      (15)   Printing and publishing houses.



      (16)   Hotels, with no minimum density requirements.



      (17)   Transportation passenger terminals, including bus
stations, railroad passenger stations or other passenger terminals.



      (18)   Laundries.



      (19)   Labor union offices, including assembly halls.



      (20)   Lawn mower repair shops.



      (21)   Lumberyards, retail only.



      (22)   Monument sales yards.



      (23)   Motels, motor hotels, and tourist courts with no
minimum density requirements.



      (24)   Office buildings.



      (25)   Packaged-goods stores for the sale of alcoholic
beverages.



      (26)   Pet shops, including aquariums.



      (27)   Photographic printing or developing establishments.



      (28)   Plumbing and heating shops.



      (29)   Printing and lithographing shops.



      (30)   Parking garages and parking lots.



      (31)   Health establishments.



      (32)   Public auction rooms.



      (33)   Radio or television studios.



      (34)   Sheet metal shops.



      (35)   Sign painting shops.



      (36)   Taverns and nightclubs, including private clubs.



      (37)   Upholstering shops.



      (38)   Used car sales lots.



      (39)   Garage for general motor vehicle repair.



      (40)   Automobile washing establishments.



      (41)   Buildings or structures designed and used solely for
the purpose of leasing interior storage space for the storage of personal
property owned by persons, firms or corporations who are not owners of such
buildings or structures, and who do not occupy by lease or otherwise more
than 1,000 square feet of the leasable space of such structure.  The owner
is restricted as the above-mentioned lessee.  Outdoor storage, the storage
of earth moving equipment, the storage of contractor’s equipment, and the
storage of livestock or livestock feed is specifically prohibited.



      (42)   Any highway-oriented business not otherwise listed in
this section which compounds, processes, packages or treats bakery goods,
candy, spices, or other food products, and sells the same to the general
public at the same location, subject to the following conditions:



         a.   The owner or owners of any tract of land may
petition the Council to authorize such use.  The petition shall be
accompanied by a preliminary site plan of the proposed development, which
shall contain those items set forth in Sections 192.06(4) through (8).  The
petition and attachment shall be referred to the Plan and Zoning Commission
for study and report.  The Commission may approve or disapprove the plan or
require that the petitioner amend the plan to preserve the intent and purpose
of this zoning district.  The plan, along with the Commission’s
recommendations on such use, shall then be referred to the City Council which
may, after notice and public hearing, approve, disapprove, or amend the plan.



         b.   No building permit shall be issued until the plan
has been given final approval by the Council.




      (Former #43 Deleted by Ord. 1688 - Jan. 11 Supp.)




      (43)   Pawnbrokers as defined, permitted and regulated in
Chapter 141 of the Municipal Code.



(Ord. 1743 - Jan. 13 Supp.)



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the C-2
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory uses permitted in the C-1 District.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the C-2 District, subject to Section 191.11 Height Limitations
and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Lot Area:  Same as required in the C-1 District.



   B.   Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit:  Same as required in the C-1
District.



   C.   Lot Width:  Same as required in the C-1 District.



   D.   Front Yard:  Same as required in the C-1 District.



   E.   Side Yard:  Same as required in the C-1 District.



   F.   Rear Yard:  Same as required in the C-1 District.



   G.   Maximum Height:  45 feet.



   H.   Maximum Number of Stories: 



Multiple dwelling uses – 4 stories;



All other permitted uses – 3 stories.



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 194.01
of this Zoning Ordinance.



192.10    C-2A CENTRAL BUSINESS COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. 



The C-2A District is intended to provide for a concentration and variety of
retail stores, professional offices and service activities located within the
Central Business District.  It is intended that this district be limited to
the S.W. 3rd Street business area.



1.   Permitted Principal Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the C-2A District:  any use permitted in and as
limited in the C-2 District.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the C-2A
District are as follows:  accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the
C-2 District.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the C-2A District, subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Lot Area:  Same as required in the C-2 District.



   B.   Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit:  Same as required in the C-2
District.



   C.   Lot Width:  Same as required in the C-2 District.



   D.   Front Yard:  No minimum requirement.



   E.   Side Yard:  No minimum requirement, except when adjoining any
R district, in which case – 10 feet.



   F.   Rear Yard:  No minimum requirement, except when adjoining any
R district, in which case – 10 feet.



   G.   Maximum Height:  Same as required in the C-2 District.



   H.   Maximum Number of Stories:  Same as required in the C-2
District.



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  There are no minimum requirements
for off-street parking and loading in the C-2A District.



5.   Minimum Open Space.  There is no minimum requirement for open space
in the C-2A District.



6.   Alterations or Modifications.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
paragraphs D, E and F of subsection 3, and subsections 4 and 5 of this
section, no building structure, parking lot, side yard, front yard, rear
yard, parking or loading area shall be altered or modified if such property,
as a result of such modification or alteration, will not comply with the
minimum requirements set forth in subsection 3; provided, however, the
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of any building or structure shall not
be deemed to be an alteration or modification under the provisions of this
section, unless such reconstruction, remodeling or repair increases the
exterior dimensions of such building or structure.



192.11    C-3 LIMITED HIGHWAY ORIENTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. 



The C-3 District is designed to provide for the general commercial needs of
the highway traveling public.  It is intended that this district be located
only at major highway and street intersections.



1.   Permitted Principal Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the C-3 District:



   A.   Retail, service or recreational uses, such as the following:



      (1)   Automobile accessory stores.



      (2)   Barbershops and beauty parlors.



      (3)   Bowling alleys.



      (4)   Car washes.



      (5)   Drugstores.



      (6)   Gas stations, including minor automotive repairs as
accessory but not principal use.



      (7)   Gift shops.



      (8)   Grocery stores.



      (9)   Miniature golf courses and golf driving ranges.



      (10)   Motels and motor hotels.



      (11)   Offices, business and professional.



      (12)   Restaurants, including drive-in restaurants.



      (13)   Self-service laundry and dry-cleaning establishments.



      (14)   Swimming pools.



      (15)   Taverns, bars and nightclubs.



      (16)   Travel and tourist information centers.



      (17)   Travel trailer campgrounds, and those areas established
to provide overnight transient facilities on a fee basis, but not to include
the permanent or semi-permanent installation of mobile homes.



      (18)   Sexually Oriented Businesses as regulated in Chapter
140 of the Municipal Code.




(Ord. 1688 - Jan. 11 Supp.)




   B.   Combinations of the uses listed in paragraph A of this section.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the C-3
District are as follows:



   A.   Use of land or structures customarily incidental and
subordinate to one of the permitted principal uses.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the C-3 District, subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Lot Area:  No minimum requirement.



   B.   Lot Width:  No minimum requirement.



   C.   Front Yard:  The front yard shall not be less than 75 feet.



   D.   Rear Yard:  Same as required in the C-1 District.



   E.   Side Yard:  No minimum required except, when adjoining an R
district, the minimum shall be 25 feet.



   F.   Building Height:  The maximum building height shall not exceed
45 feet.



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 194.01 of this
Zoning Ordinance.



192.12    M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. 



The M-1 District is intended and designed to provide areas of the City
suitable for activities and uses of a light industrial nature.  Such
districts do not require the high standards of M-3 Districts but still
require protection from the less restrictive uses permitted in the M-2
District.  It is not intended that any new residential development be
permitted in the M-1 District.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the M-1 District:



   A.   Any use permitted in the M-3 District.



   B.   Any use permitted in the C-2 District, except that no new
residential or multiple dwelling uses shall be permitted, unless accessory to
a permitted principal use.



   C.   Automobile assembly.



   D.   Bag, carpet, and rug cleaning, provided necessary equipment is
installed and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust.



   E.   Bakeries.



   F.   Welding or other metal-working shops.



   G.   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors, storage and sale of livestock feed
(provided dust is effectively controlled), and storage yards for vehicles of
a delivery or draying service.



   H.   Carting, express hauling or storage yards.



   I.   Circus, carnival or similar transient enterprise; provided,
such structures or buildings shall be at least 200 feet from any R district.



   J.   Coal yard, coke yard or wood yard.



   K.   Concrete mixing, concrete products manufacture.



   L.   Cooperage works.



   M.   Creamery, bottling works, ice cream manufacturing (wholesale),
ice manufacturing and cold storage plant.



   N.   Enameling, lacquering or japanning.



   O.   Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metals or electric
foundry not causing noxious fumes or odors.



   P.   Experimental, film or testing laboratories.



   Q.   Livery stable or riding academy.



   R.   Machine shop.



   S.   Manufacture of musical instruments and novelties.



   T.   Manufacture of pottery or other ceramic products, using only
previously pulverized clay.



   U.   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments,
and devices.



   V.   Manufacture and repair of electric signs, advertising
structures, and sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating
equipment.



   W.   Milk distributing station other than a retail business
conducted on the premises.



   X.   Sawmill and planing mill, including manufacture of wood
products not involving chemical treatment.



   Y.   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or
treatment of cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and food products, except fish and
meat products, cereals, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, stock feed, flour; and
the rendering or refining of fats and oils.



   Z.   The manufacturing, compounding, assembling or treatment of
articles or merchandise from previously prepared materials such as bone,
cloth, cork, fiber, leather, paper, plastics, metals or stones, tobacco, wax,
yarns and wood.



   AA.   Automobile body or fender repair shop, but not including
automobile wrecking or used parts yards.



   BB.   Lumberyards and building materials sales yards.



   CC.   Vulcanizing, retreading and recapping of tires.



   DD.   Truck rental establishments.



   EE.   Warehousing and storage, retail or wholesale.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the M-1
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal
use.



3.   Prohibited Uses; Outdoor Storage Requirement.



   A.   No use shall be permitted to be established or maintained which
by reason of its nature or manner of operation is or may become hazardous,
noxious or offensive owing to the emission of odor, dust, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, refuse matter or water-carried waste.



   B.   Outdoor storage of equipment not intended for over-the-road or
rail use, supplies (or materials) intended for refabrication, waste
materials, industrial by-products, or items intended for junk yards shall be
so located and screened, fenced or landscaped to comply with a type “C”
opaque screen as described in paragraph 194.02(3)(C) of this Zoning Ordinance
to effectively prevent visibility of such storage from all adjoining property
lines and street right-of-way lines.



   C.   In the event that the property owner and Department Director
disagree regarding whether or not any site must be screened, the property
owner may appeal to the Board of Adjustments in accordance with the
provisions of Section 197.01(3) of this Zoning Ordinance.



4.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the M-1 District, subject to the height limitations in Section
191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this Zoning
Ordinance:



   A.   Front Yard:  50 feet.



   B.   Side Yard:  None required, except when adjacent to any
Residential district or street right-of-way line, in which case – 50 feet.



   C.   Rear Yard:  40 feet.  Where a railroad right-of-way line lies
immediately adjacent to the rear of a lot, the rear yard requirements need
not apply.



   D.   Maximum Height:  75 feet.



   E.   Maximum Number of Stories:  5 stories.



5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions in Section 194.01
of this Zoning Ordinance.



192.13    M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. 



The M-2 District is intended and designed to provide areas of the City for
activities and uses of a heavy industrial character.  Since this district is
the least restrictive of any district, almost any use is permissible with the
exception of a small number of uses which, by reason of certain undesirable
characteristics, are permitted subject to approval by the Board of Adjustment
in accordance with appropriate safeguards.  In addition, no residential uses
are permitted.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises may be used for
any purpose whatsoever, provided the following regulations are met:



   A.   No occupancy permit shall be issued for any use in conflict
with any ordinance of the City or law of the State regulating nuisances.



   B.   No occupancy permit shall be issued for any dwellings, school,
hospital, clinic, or other institution for human care, except where
incidental to a permitted principal use.



   C.   The uses listed in Paragraph D of this section shall be
permitted through a Special Use Permit as provided for in Section 196.02 of
the Ankeny Municipal Code, issued after public hearing and approval by the
Board of Adjustment.  In its determination upon the particular uses at the
location requested, the Board of Adjustment shall consider all of the
following provisions:



(Ord. 1917 – Aug. 17 Supp.)



      (1)   The proposed location, design, construction and
operation of the particular use adequately safeguards the health, safety and
general welfare of persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding
property.



      (2)   Such use shall not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to surrounding property.



      (3)   Such use shall not unduly increase congestion in the
streets or public danger of fire, and shall not endanger the public safety.



      (4)   Such use shall not diminish or impair established
property values in adjoining or surrounding property.



      (5)   Such use shall be in accord with the intent, purpose and
spirit of this Zoning Ordinance and the comprehensive plan of the City.



   D.   The uses subject to the provisions of paragraph C of this
section are as follows:



      (1)   Abattoirs and slaughterhouses or stockyards.



      (2)   Acid manufacture or wholesale storage of acids.



      (3)   Automobile, tractor or machinery wrecking and used parts
yards, provided any wrecking operation is carried on within a building
completely enclosed with walls and roof and the yard completely enclosed with
a wall or fence, reasonably maintained and at least six feet high, completely
obscuring the activity.  There shall be only one opening in the wall or
fence facing any public street for each 200 feet of length.



      (4)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture.



      (5)   Distillation of bones.



      (6)   Explosive manufacture or storage.



      (7)   Fat rendering.



      (8)   Fertilizer manufacturing.



      (9)   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping.



      (10)   Gas manufacture and cylinder recharging.



      (11)   Glue, size, or gelatin manufacture.



      (12)   Junk, iron or rags, storage or baling, and wastepaper
yards, where the premises upon which such activities are conducted are wholly
enclosed within a building, wall or fence not less than six feet in height
and completely obscuring the activity.



      (13)   Refining or wholesale storage of petroleum or its
products, and asphalt plants.



      (14)   Rubber goods manufacture.



      (15)   Sand or gravel pits.



      (16)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores.



      (17)   Transmitting stations.



      (18)   Wholesale storage of gasoline.



   E.   The following uses are allowed in the M-2 District outright and
without approval of a Special Use Permit.



      (1)   Fireworks Retail Sales Facility, pursuant to the
regulations of the Code of Iowa.




(Ord. 1925 - Nov. 17 Supp.)




2.   Required Conditions.  Required conditions in the M-2 District are as
follows:



   A.   The best practical disposal of refuse matter or water-carried
waste shall be employed, and the abatement of obnoxious or offensive odor,
dust, smoke, gas, noise, or similar nuisances shall be required.



   B.   All principal or accessory structures housing a use permitted
only in the M-2 District shall be located at least 200 feet from any R or C-1
district and not less than 100 feet from any other district except an M-1
District.



   C.   Outdoor storage of equipment not intended for over-the-road or
rail use, supplies (or materials) intended for refabrication, waste
materials, industrial by-products, or items intended for junk yards shall be
so located and screened, fenced or landscaped to comply with a type “C”
opaque screen as described in paragraph 194.02(3)(C) of this Zoning Ordinance
to effectively prevent visibility of such storage from all adjoining property
lines and street right-of-way lines.  In the event that the property owner
and Department Director disagree regarding whether or not any site must be
screened, the property owner may appeal to the Board of Adjustment in
accordance with the provisions of Section 197.01(3) of this Zoning Ordinance.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the M-2 District, subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and  the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Front Yard:  50 feet.



   B.   Side Yard:  9 feet required, except when adjacent to any
street right-of-way line, in which case 50 feet.



   C.   Rear Yard:  40 feet, except that where a railroad right-of-way
lies immediately adjacent to the rear of a lot, the rear yard requirement
need not apply.



   D.   Maximum Height:  No limitation.



   E.   Maximum Number of Stories:  No limitation.



4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.  Spaces for off-street parking and
loading in the M-2 District shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Section 194.01 of this Zoning Ordinance.



192.14    M-3 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. 



The M-3 District is intended and designed to provide for increased
flexibility in the location of certain manufacturing and industrial uses
while maintaining protection for nearby residential districts.  It allows
selected industries of a non-nuisance character to locate in areas near
residential uses.  The M-3 District is characterized by large lots, with
landscaped grounds and ample provision for off-street parking and loading
spaces, and structures generally one or two stories in height.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the M-3 District; provided, however, all
manufacturing, assembling, compounding, processing, packaging or other
comparable treatment, including storage of any and all materials and
equipment, shall take place within completely enclosed buildings, except for
parked motor vehicles and off-street parking and loading as required by
Section 194.01 of this Zoning Ordinance.  In addition, all open areas not
used for off-street parking or loading shall be planted with grass, properly
maintained, and kept free from refuse and debris.



   A.   Assembly of small electrical appliances, small industrial and
electronic instruments and devices, radios, phonographs and television sets,
including the manufacture of small accessory parts only such as coils,
condensers, transformers, crystal holders and similar products.



   B.   Commercial trade schools and business colleges, including
dormitory facilities.



   C.   Compounding and packaging of drugs, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics,
perfumes and toiletries.



   D.   Research, experimental and testing laboratories.



   E.   Manufacturing, assembling, compounding, processing, packaging
or other comparable treatment of the following:



      (1)   Bakery goods, candy and food products.



      (2)   Cameras and other photographic equipment.



      (3)   Electric and neon signs, outdoor advertising signs.



      (4)   Medical, dental, and drafting instruments.



      (5)   Musical instruments, toys, novelties, and rubber and
metal hand stamps.



      (6)   Pottery and other similar ceramic products using only
previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by electricity or gas.



      (7)   Products from the following previously prepared
materials: bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, rope, cord, twine,
feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, cardboard,
plastics, natural and synthetic rubber, precious or semiprecious metals or
stones, shells, textiles, tobacco, wax, wood, yarns, light metal mesh, pipe,
rods, strips or wire.



      (8)   Small precision instruments, such as barometers, clocks,
watches, and compasses.



   F.   Office buildings.



   G.   Printing, lithographing or film processing plants.



   H.   Radio and television broadcasting stations and studios, but not
including antennas or towers.



   I.   Warehouses for storage of merchandise or material in connection
with the uses permitted in this district only.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the M-3
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory uses of land or structures customarily incidental and
subordinate to any of the principal uses set forth in subsection 1.



   B.   Dwelling for any watchman or caretaker.



   C.   Employee cafeteria or other food concession in conjunction with
a permitted use.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the M-3 District, subject to the height limitations found in
Section 191.11 and the modifications contained in Section 196.03 of this
Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Front Yard:  50 feet.



   B.   Side Yard:  two side yards, each 10 feet wide or one side yard
20 feet wide; provided, however, where adjacent to an R district on the
street right-of-way line, 50 feet.



   C.   Rear Yard:  50 feet.



   D.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio:  One to one.



   E.   Maximum Height:  35 feet.



   F.   Maximum Number of Stories:  two stories.



192.15    PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. 



The purpose of this district is to promote and encourage development or
redevelopment of tracts of land on a planned, unified basis by allowing
greater flexibility and diversification than is normally permitted by
conventional single lot development in other zoning districts because of the
substantial public advantages of planned development.  Although Planned Unit
Developments (PUDs) may appear to deviate in certain respects from a literal
interpretation of the comprehensive plan, regulations adapted to such unified
planning and development are intended both to accomplish the purposes of
zoning and other applicable regulations to an equivalent or higher degree
than where such regulations are designed to control unscheduled development
on individual lots, and to promote economical and efficient land use through
an improved level of amenities, appropriate and harmonious variety, creative
design, and a better living environment.



1.   Where Permitted.  Planned Unit Developments shall be permitted on
any two-acre or larger tract of land that has been zoned or rezoned for PUD
purposes by the Council.  Said PUDs may consist of residential, commercial,
industrial, public, semi-public and/or conservancy land uses.



2.   Procedure.



   A.   Pre-application Conference.  In order to eliminate unnecessary
expenditures of time and money, the developer shall first schedule a
pre-application conference with the Department Director, who shall involve
representatives of other departments as deemed appropriate.  The Department
Director may require submittal of a generalized sketch plan providing such
information as follows:



      (1)   Location and size of the overall site, and of the
individual types of development or uses proposed within the site.



      (2)   Existing topography, indicating major earthwork areas,
storm water runoff and detention considerations, flood plains, and any
problem areas.



      (3)   Existing tree masses, geological and environmentally
important characteristics.



      (4)   Generalized vehicular and pedestrian systems and parking
areas.



      (5)   Generalized building locations.



      (6)   Approximate gross density, and number and types of
dwelling units in accordance with the comprehensive plan; approximate gross
floor areas of commercial and industrial land use.



      (7)   Generalized utility line considerations with sanitary
sewer capacity limitations so noted.



      (8)   Generalized public and private ownership boundaries,
including common ownership areas, if any.



The Department Director shall have fifteen days in which to review and
comment on the pre-application sketch plan.  Following the department’s
review, the developer may request an informal consideration of the proposal
by the Plan and Zoning Commission.  Said consideration shall be non-binding
on either party.



   B.   Application for Rezoning.  Following the pre-application
conference the applicant shall submit a petition for rezoning in accordance
with standard City procedures for rezoning, accompanied by a master plan and
related documents containing the information required by other paragraphs of
this section, and required fees.  The petition and master plan shall be
referred to the Plan and Zoning Commission for study and report, and for
public hearing as required by this Zoning Ordinance for rezoning.  The
Commission shall review the master plan for conformity to the standards of
this section, and may approve the plan as submitted; require the petitioner
to modify, alter, adjust, or amend the plan as deemed necessary to preserve
the intent and purpose of this section to promote public health, safety,
morals and general welfare; or recommend that it be denied.  The action of
the Commission shall be reported to the City Council, whereupon the Council
may approve or disapprove the petition and master plan as reported or may
require such changes thereto as deemed necessary to effectuate the intent and
purpose of this section.  All public hearings shall be scheduled  as soon
as possible after all required information has been submitted.  The
Commission shall report their findings to the Council in a timely manner. 
In the event they fail to take action within sixty days after the date of
public hearing, the petitioner or anyone located within the notification area
as defined for rezonings may request in writing that the Commission complete
their considerations.  The Commission shall then take action within the next
thirty days and report their findings to the Council for consideration by the
Council, unless the Council expressly grants the Commission additional time
to complete negotiations, studies, or other items necessary.



   C.   Final Plans.  Final plans for the Planned Unit Development
shall be comprised of site plans and/or preliminary and final subdivision
plats as appropriate to the situation due to requirements of the site
planning and subdivision ordinances or specific provisions of the master
plan.  Such site plans and plats shall contain all information and be
processed in the manner set forth in said ordinances, in addition to
complying with any specific provisions of the master plan, and shall
generally comply with the development concepts outlined in the master plan. 
No public notice or hearing shall be required for final plans unless required
by the master plan or caused to be required by the Commission or Council as
deemed appropriate, provided that deviation from the master plan may be
permitted as refinements to the design and planning if not defined by this
Zoning Ordinance as a substantial modification requiring amendment to the
master plan.  Such deviations shall be expressly set out and shall be
approved by the Commission and Council.  Final plans may cover all or part
of the Planned Unit Development, provided that a final plan covering only a
part of a PUD is hereby defined as a phase irrespective of contrary
provisions by the master plan and shall demonstrate the ability to be
self-sustaining in terms of access, services, utilities, open space, economic
viability, and other major considerations.  If it is the desire of the
petitioner, preliminary plat and/or final site plan approval may be obtained
at the time of master plan approval by expressly declaring such intent and
filing all information required by the subdivision and site planning
ordinances.  Final site plan approval shall not be granted for an unplatted
parcel.  Upon approval of final plans, building permits shall be issued in
the same manner as for building permits generally.  In any event where
platting is required, no building permits shall be issued until the final
plat is approved and recorded and all other requirements complied with. 
Final plans shall be binding on the petitioner and any and all successors in
title so long as PUD zoning applies to the land, unless amended in accordance
with the procedures set forth.



   D.   Amendments or Modifications.  Substantial modification to the
master plan shall be processed in the same manner as a rezoning and
additionally shall comply with the provisions of paragraph B above.  Notice
and public hearing requirements and the effect of a denial shall be the same
as for a rezoning, provided that the notification area shall be those
property owners legally required to be notified as opposed to the entire
PUD.  Further provided, in the event a requested amendment for a portion of
the entire PUD is denied, such action shall not create any limitations under
rezoning procedure on the filing of an amendment to another portion of the
PUD having a substantially different notification area.  Any ambiguities or
disputes between this section and procedures for rezoning shall be resolved
in favor of the more restrictive requirements.  Substantial modifications
are hereby defined to include, but are not limited to, the following:
increased density; intensification of use by changing to a lower
classification, with conventional single family being the highest
classification and progressing to attached single family, multiple family,
commercial offices, retail, warehousing, and light industry, to heavy
industry; addition of uses, or elimination of conditions or restrictions on a
use or uses; increased floor area ratios, or other modifications considered
probable to generate increased traffic, sewage, water consumption, or other
detrimental conditions; significant modifications to peripheral buffering or
screening, setbacks, height, locations of buildings, drives, or other
improvements, which were intended for protection of proximate properties,
provided that substitution of equivalent screening materials shall not be
considered a substantial modification; modifications to the street pattern,
such as that of major streets or continuations of existing streets, which
will have a demonstrable impact on traffic flow such as to effectively change
the functional classification of the street; modifications to access which
may lead to increased congestion, or to additional commercial or industrial
traffic on a local residential street; or other changes deemed substantial by
the Department Director.  Modifications to final plans shall follow the
procedures of the site planning or subdivision ordinances, as appropriate,
except in the case of a substantial modification as defined above.



3.   Information Required on Master Plan.  The following information,
plans and maps shall be submitted as part of the application for a Planned
Unit Development:



   A.   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of owners, developer,
and designer; name of development, date, north point, and scale.



   B.   Legal description of the PUD, and map of the boundary of the
proposed PUD as well as interior boundaries of proposed development phases,
and of any existing separate ownerships.



   C.   Sufficient information on adjacent properties to indicate
relationships to the proposed development, including such information as land
divisions, land use, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, significant
natural features or physical improvements, and drainage pattern.



   D.   Existing site conditions including contours at intervals
sufficient to indicate topographic conditions (generally two feet),
drainageways and one hundred year flood plains, floodways, heavy woods or
other significant natural areas, and existing structures; multiple family,
commercial, and industrial structures, and recreation facilities; further
delineating areas with different uses or building types, and gross density
per acre.



   E.   General location and size of areas to be dedicated or reserved
for common open space, park, schools, recreation area, and similar uses, and
how any private facilities are proposed to be maintained.



   F.   Existing and proposed general circulation systems, including
streets, pedestrian ways, and major points of access with estimated traffic
generation.



   G.   Existing and proposed general sanitary and storm sewer systems,
water mains, and drainage ways.



   H.   Proposed development standards, including but not limited to,
uses, density, floor area ratios, or bulk regulations including open space,
lot areas and widths, setbacks, and exceptions or variances from general
requirements of zoning and other ordinances.



   I.   Estimated sewer and water usage computations in accordance with
the criteria of the regulating agency.



   J.   Treatment of transitional zones around the perimeter of the
project for protection of adjoining properties, including setbacks and
landscaping areas,                                       
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
    fences or other screening, height limitations or other provisions.



   K.   A narrative or graphic explanation of the planning and design
concepts and objectives the owner intends to follow in implementing the
proposed development, including a description of the character of the
proposed development; the rationale behind the assumptions and choices made;
the compatibility with the surrounding area; and design considerations for
architecture, engineering, landscaping, open space and so forth.



   L.   A statement of intent with regard to selling or leasing all or
portions of the proposed development.



   M.   Proposed energy conservation methods, such as siting or design
or structures.



   N.   Proposed phasing timetable.



The above information should be shown in a clear and logical manner at a
legible scale.  Sheet size should not exceed 24" x 36" for paper copies and
Mylar reproducible sheets.  Where practical, the final document is required
to be one compact disk (CD) in the IBM disk format with a PDF file that
contains all pages of the PUD.  Generally, existing conditions should be
illustrated on a separate sheet for sake of clarity, although existing
topography, access, utility and sewer lines and other items that are
appropriate for understanding the proposal should also appear on the proposed
development plan.  It is strongly recommended that an architect, landscape
architect, and civil engineer be employed to prepare the plans.  The
Commission or Council may require any additional information which may be
needed to evaluate the proposed PUD on the basis of special or unforeseen
circumstances, or may waive any of the above requirements if it is found that
such information is unnecessary to properly evaluate the proposed PUD



4.   Development Controls.  Although PUDs are intended to promote and
permit flexibility of design and thereby may involve modifications of
conventional regulations or standards, certain requirements which are set
forth below shall be applied to ensure that the development is compatible
with the intent of this Zoning Ordinance.



   A.   Any use that is approved and made a part of the master plan,
subject to any conditions attached thereto, shall be permitted.



   B.   Height, setback, bulk, and other requirements set out in the
master plan shall constitute the basis for and become the zoning requirement
for that particular PUD, provided that refinements may be made through final
plan approval if not defined as a substantial modification; in lack of any
special provisions set out in the master plan, the requirements of the most
proximate zoning district, as defined by use, shall be applied.



   C.   Project phases shall be substantially and functionally
self-contained and self-sustaining with regard to access, parking, utilities,
open space, screening and transitional elements and other support features,
and be capable of supporting required operation and maintenance activities;
temporary provisions, such as turnarounds or access easements, may be
required for this purpose; the initial phases generally should not be
comprised of the most intensive portions of the PUD, unless the City concurs
this is the most feasible means of developing the property in terms of
access, sewer service, or similar physical constraints, or will permit
earlier development of common amenities.



   D.   Attention shall be given to mitigation of existing or potential
land use conflicts through proper orientation, open space setbacks,
landscaping and screening, grading, traffic circulation and architectural
compatibility.  It is the intent of this section to recognize that
appropriate use of design techniques will provide the required mitigation,
and thereby eliminate the need for certain conventional regulations or
standards.  Examples of design techniques, not requirements, are: orienting
views, access, and principal activities away from the land use needing
protection by placing those least compatible activities farthest from the
common boundary and those compatible nearest to create an effective buffer;
using setbacks in conjunction with landscaping can mitigate conflicts by
providing a visual buffer, controlling pedestrian access, softening visual
contrast by subduing differences in architecture and bulk, and reducing heat
generated by development, and the use of dense landscaping can reduce the
width of physical separations needed for such purposes; the use of proper
grading will control drainage, can alter views,  subdue sound, and channel
access; fences, walls and berms can be used to channel access and control
visual, sound and light pollution; proper architectural use of color, bulk,
materials and shape will enhance compatibility and reduce contrast, although
details added to the building for esthetic purpose without consideration to
form and surroundings may be detrimental rather than helpful; and proper
design of pedestrian ways, streets and points of access and proper location
of parking areas, will reduce congestion and safety hazards and help prevent
introduction of noise, pollutants and other conflicts into areas with less
intensive land use.  Other techniques may also be used.



   E.   Permanent care and maintenance of common elements such as open
space, recreation amenities, and others shall be provided in a legally
binding form.  If the common elements are to be maintained by a home
owners’ association, the applicant shall file the proposed documents
governing the association for review by legal counsel for compliance with the
following requirements at the time the final plat or site plan is filed:



      (1)   Membership shall be mandatory for each buyer and any
successive buyer.



      (2)   The open space restrictions shall be in perpetuity, or
automatically renewable, and shall not terminate except by approval of both
the owners’ association and the City;



      (3)   The owners’ association shall be responsible for
liability insurance, local taxes, and the maintenance of recreational and
other facilities not dedicated to the City;



      (4)   Owners shall pay their pro rata share of the cost or the
assessment levied by the association shall become a lien on the property;



      (5)   The association shall be able to adjust the assessment
to meet changes needed;



      (6)   No change in open space use or dissolution of the
owners’ association shall occur without approval by the City.



   F.   Performance bonds or other security acceptable to the City may
be required to ensure completion of recreational amenities provided in lieu
of public facilities, or for mitigating elements such as screening or public
improvements.



   G.   Except where the City agrees to other arrangements, a PUD shall
be comprised of a single owner, or a group of owners acting as a partnership
or corporation with each agreeing in advance to be bound by the conditions
which will be effective in the PUD.



5.   Validity.  In the event the first development phase has not
commenced within two years after the date of rezoning, or if subsequent
phases are delayed more than two years beyond the indicated development
schedule, the developer shall file appropriate information detailing the
reasons for the delay with the City.  The Department Director shall review
the circumstances and prepare a report recommending appropriate action to be
taken concerning the PUD.  The Plan and Zoning Commission and Council shall
review the matter, and may continue the PUD zoning with revised time limits;
require that appropriate amendments be made or action taken, such amendments
to comply with the procedures of this section if deemed substantial; continue
with PUD zoning for part of the area, with or without revised time limits,
and initiate rezoning of the remainder to an appropriate district; or
initiate rezoning of the entire parcel to an appropriate district, provided
that the rezoning shall not be to a zone more restrictive than the one
applied immediately prior to the rezoning to PUD except after comprehensive
planning analysis.  The Commission and Council may schedule such public
hearings as deemed appropriate.  Approval of a final site plan or
preliminary plat shall be deemed to commence development, provided that the
permanent placement of construction materials shall have started and be
proceeding without delay within two years after the date of site plan
approval, and a final plat approved and filed with the Polk County Clerk and
Recorder within one year after the date of preliminary plat approval in the
event a site plan is not required.  Failure to comply with this provision
shall void the site plan and preliminary plat approvals, and make the PUD
subject to review as provided above.  It shall be the responsibility of the
developer to comply with all prescribed time limits without notice from the
City.



6.   Application to Existing PUD Districts.  Existing PUD districts shall
comply with the requirements and provisions of this section, provided that no
additional filings shall be required to maintain current valid status, and no
currently expired approvals shall be deemed to have been reapproved by
passage of this section.  Validity of existing PUDs shall be computed
according to the time limits set forth herein from the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this section.



7.   Fees. 



   A.   Before any action shall be taken as provided in this section,
the party or parties proposing the change shall pay the fee as established by
City Council Resolution. 



   B.   Under no condition shall said sum or any part thereof be
refunded for failure of such rezoning or substantial modification to be
enacted into law.



   C.   Site plans and subdivisions in a PUD shall be subject to the
normal fees for such filings.



192.16    U-1 CONSERVATION AND PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT. 



The U-1 District is intended to preserve and protect the heavily wooded
areas, creeks, stream banks and adjacent flood plain areas of the City
planning area from adverse future development.  This district is also
intended to provide for open space and the development of major public
utility facilities where required to serve the needs of the community.



1.   Principal Permitted Uses.  Only the following uses of structures or
land shall be permitted in the U-1 District:



   A.   Agriculture, truck gardening and nurseries, and the usual
accessory buildings; provided, no permanent dwelling units shall be erected
thereon unless the tract contains ten or more acres.



   B.   Forests and forestry.



   C.   Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, golf courses, and
recreational uses.



   D.   Any use erected or maintained by a public agency.



   E.   The uses listed in paragraph F of this section shall be
permitted subject to approval by the Board of Adjustment after public
hearing.  In its determination upon the particular uses at the location
requested, the Board of Adjustment shall consider all of the following
provisions:



      (1)   The proposed location, design, construction and
operation of the particular use adequately safeguards the health, safety and
general welfare of persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding
property.



      (2)   Such use shall not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to surrounding property.



      (3)   Such use shall not unduly increase congestion in the
streets or public danger of fire or flood, and shall not endanger the public
safety.



      (4)   Such use shall not diminish or impair established
property values in adjoining or surrounding property.



      (5)   Such use shall be in accord with the intent, purpose,
and spirit of this Zoning Ordinance and the comprehensive plan of the City.



   F.   The uses subject to the provisions of paragraph E of this
section are as follows:



      (1)   Amusement enterprises, such as race tracks, carnivals,
circuses, rides and shows, and similar enterprises.



      (2)   Mining and extraction of minerals of raw materials.



      (3)   Airports and landing fields.



      (4)   Private playgrounds, golf courses, and recreational uses.



      (5)   Public utility structures and equipment necessary for
the operation thereof.



      (6)   Transmitting stations.



      (7)   Dumping of noncombustible materials for landfill
purposes.



      (8)   Sanitary and combustible landfill.



2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.  Permitted accessory uses in the U-1
District are as follows:



   A.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of
the uses set forth in subsection 1.



3.   Area and Size Regulations.  The following minimum area and size
requirements shall be observed in the U-1 District:



   A.   Front Yard:  50 feet.



   B.   Side Yard:  two side yards not less than 50 feet each.



   C.   Rear Yard:  50 feet.



   D.   Maximum Height:  no limitation.



   E.   Maximum Number of Stories:  no limitation.




(Chapter 192 amended by Ord. 1651 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




 



EDITOR’S NOTE


The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section 192.01(3) of this chapter and have not been included as
a part of this Code of Ordinances but have been specifically saved from
repeal and are in full force and effect.


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


ORDINANCE
 
ADOPTED
 
ORDINANCE
 
ADOPTED


1451
 
March 1, 2004
 
1616
 
May 5, 2008


1453
 
May 3, 3004
 
1621
 
June 2, 2008


1454
 
May 3, 3004
 
1622
 
July 7, 2008


1456
 
May 3, 3004
 
1629
 
November 17, 2008


1459
 
July 6, 2004
 
1636
 
February 16, 2009


1460
 
July 6, 2004
 
1642
 
June 1, 2009


1461
 
October 4, 2004
 
1644
 
June 15, 2009


1463
 
August 2, 2004
 
1645
 
June 15, 2009


1477
 
October 4, 2004
 
1648
 
September 8, 2009


1485
 
December 20, 2004
 
1649
 
September 8, 2009


1490
 
February 7, 2005
 
1652
 
January 4, 2010


1497
 
April 4, 2005
 
1653
 
January 4, 2010


1502
 
May 16, 2005
 
1654
 
January 18, 2010


1503
 
June 6, 2005
 
1665
 
July 6, 2010


1504
 
June 6. 2005
 
1673
 
September 7, 2010


1505
 
May 16, 2005
 
1674
 
September 20, 2010


1507
 
May 16, 2005
 
1692
 
March 7, 2011


1510
 
June 20, 2005
 
1699
 
June 6, 2011


1520
 
August 15, 2005
 
1706
 
September 19, 2011


1523
 
August 15, 2005
 
1707
 
September 6, 2011


1525
 
September 19, 2005
 
1713
 
October 3, 2011


1531
 
November 7, 2005
 
1715
 
December 19, 2011


1534
 
December 5, 2005
 
1718
 
January 16, 2012


1535
 
December 5, 2005
 
1722
 
March 19, 2012


1537
 
December 19, 2005
 
1725
 
April 2, 2012


1538
 
February 20, 2006
 
1733
 
August 20, 2012


1540
 
March 6, 2006
 
1742
 
October 15, 2012


1544
 
May 15, 2006
 
1748
 
December 17, 2012


1545
 
May 15, 2006
 
1751
 
February 4, 2013


1546
 
May 15, 2006
 
1753
 
February 4, 2013


1548
 
June 5, 2006
 
1759
 
March 18, 2013


1550
 
May 22, 2006
 
1763
 
May 6, 2013


1569
 
February 19, 2007
 
1765
 
May 20, 2013


1570
 
March 19, 2007
 
1766
 
May 20, 2013


1572
 
April 2, 2007
 
1778
 
September 3, 2013


1573
 
April 2, 2007
 
1781
 
October 7, 2013


1583
 
July 2, 2007
 
1784
 
October 21, 2013


1592
 
October 10, 2007
 
1785
 
November 4, 2013


1604
 
January 7, 2008
 
1788
 
November 4, 2013


1606
 
December 17, 2007
 
1791
 
January 6, 2014


1608
 
December 3, 2007
 
1792
 
February 17, 2014









 



ORDINANCE
 
ADOPTED
 
ORDINANCE
 
ADOPTED


1815
 
May 19, 2014
 
1979
 
September 3, 2019


1816
 
May 19, 2014
 
1980
 
September 3, 2019


1817
 
June 16, 2014
 
1982
 
October 21, 2019


1823
 
September 2, 1014
 
 
 
 


1833
 
February 2, 2015
 
 
 
 


1845
 
April 20, 2015
 
 
 
 


1847
 
April 6, 2015
 
 
 
 


1848
 
May 4, 2015
 
 
 
 


1849
 
May 18, 2015
 
 
 
 


1856
 
July 20, 2015
 
 
 
 


1858
 
September 8, 2015
 
 
 
 


1862
 
September 21, 2015
 
 
 
 


1863
 
September 28, 2015
 
 
 
 


1869
 
December 7, 2015
 
 
 
 


1870
 
December 21, 2015
 
 
 
 


1872
 
February 1, 2016
 
 
 
 


1874
 
February 15, 2016
 
 
 
 


1876
 
April 4, 2016
 
 
 
 


1880
 
May 2, 2016
 
 
 
 


1882
 
May 16, 2016
 
 
 
 


1887
 
July 18, 2016
 
 
 
 


1889
 
July 18, 2016
 
 
 
 


1890
 
September 19, 2016
 
 
 
 


1891
 
September 6, 2016
 
 
 
 


1892
 
September 19, 2016
 
 
 
 


1896
 
November 7, 2016
 
 
 
 


1902
 
March 6, 2017
 
 
 
 


1903
 
March 6, 2017
 
 
 
 


1921
 
August 7, 2017
 
 
 
 


1922
 
September 5, 2017
 
 
 
 


1923
 
September 5, 2017
 
 
 
 


1924
 
August 21, 2017
 
 
 
 


1935
 
July 16, 2018
 
 
 
 


1937
 
March 19, 2018
 
 
 
 


1944
 
June 4, 2018
 
 
 
 


1949
 
July 16, 2018
 
 
 
 


1950
 
August 6, 2018
 
 
 
 


1951
 
July 16, 2018
 
 
 
 


1953
 
September 17, 2018
 
 
 
 


1961
 
March 4, 2019
 
 
 
 


1962
 
April 1, 2019
 
 
 
 


1966
 
May 20, 2019
 
 
 
 


1967
 
May 20, 2019
 
 
 
 


1968
 
May 20, 2019
 
 
 
 


1969
 
May 20, 2019
 
 
 
 


1974
 
June 3, 2019
 
 
 
 


1978
 
August 19, 2019
 
 
 
 




 



CHAPTER 193
ZONING ORDINANCE
FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS



193.01    FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS.



1.   Statutory Authority. The Legislature of the State of Iowa has, in
Chapter 414, Code of Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact
zoning regulations to secure safety from flood and to promote health and the
general welfare.



2.   Findings of Fact. The flood hazard areas of the City of Ankeny are
subject to periodic inundation which can result in loss of life and property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the community. These flood losses, hazards, and
related adverse effects are caused by (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas
by uses vulnerable to flood damages, which create hazardous conditions as a
result of being inadequately elevated or otherwise protected from flooding;
and (ii) the cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities. This ordinance relies upon
engineering methodology for analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with
the standards established by the Department of Natural Resources.



3.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to protect and preserve
the rights, privileges and property of Ankeny, and its residents and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing flood losses with provisions
designed to:



   A.   Reserve sufficient flood plain area for the conveyance of flood
flows so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased
substantially;



   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety
or property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood
height or velocities;



   C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public
utilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the
time of initial construction;



   D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and



   E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in
the City to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.



4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this Ordinance and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this Ordinance.



5.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this Zoning Ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes, and is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger
floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris.
The ordinance codified in this section does not imply that areas outside the
flood plain districts or land uses permitted within such districts will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This section shall not create liability
on the part of Ankeny, or any officer or employee thereof, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this section, or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.



6.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this
Ordinance to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions; however, where this Ordinance imposes greater
restrictions, the provision of this Ordinance shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this Ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent
of the inconsistency only.



7.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
Ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this Ordinance shall not be affected thereby.



8.   Definitions. The definitions found in Section 190.03 of this Code of
Ordinances apply to the provisions of this section. The following additional
words, definitions, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:



   A.   Appurtenant structure - A structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.



   B.   Base flood - The flood having a one percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.  See also, "100-year flood."



   C.   Base Flood Elevation (BFE) - The elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.



   D.   Basement - Any enclosed area of a building which has its floor
or lowest level below ground level (sub-grade) on all sides. See also,
"Lowest floor."



   E.   Development - Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials. "Development" does not include "minor
projects" or "routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities," as
defined in this section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and
similar practices that do not involve filling or grading.



   F.   Enclosed area below lowest floor - The floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:



      (1)   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize
hydrostatic pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy
the provisions of Section 11.B(2)d. of this Ordinance;



      (2)   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted,
drywalled, etc.), and used solely for low damage potential uses such as
building access, parking or storage;



      (3)   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water
heater, furnace, electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are
located at least one foot above the base flood elevation; and



      (4)   The enclosed area is not a "basement," as defined in
this section.



   G.   Existing construction - Any structure for which the "start of
construction" commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.



   H.   Existing factory-built home park or subdivision - A
factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.



   I.   Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision -
The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).



   J.   Factory-built home - Any structure designed for residential
use, which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or
assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and
installation, on a building site. For the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance,
factory-built homes include mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular
homes; and also include "recreational vehicles," which are placed on a site
for greater than 180 consecutive days, and not fully licensed for and ready
for highway use.



   K.   Factory-built park - A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two or more factory-built home lots for rent or sale.



   L.   Five-hundred (500) year flood - A flood, the magnitude of which
has a two-tenths (0.2) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year, or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once
every 500 years.



   M.   Flood - A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas, resulting from the overflow
of streams or rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters
from any source.



   N.   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) - The official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study, which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.



   O.   Flood Insurance Study (FIS) - A report published by FEMA for a
community, issued along with the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.



   P.   Floodplain - Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.



   Q.   Floodplain management - An overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
flood control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.



   R.   Floodproofing - Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.



   S.   Floodway - The channel of a river or stream, and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.



   T.   Floodway fringe - Those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.



   U.   Highest adjacent grade - The highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a
structure.



   V.   Historic structure - Any structure that is:



      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic
Places, maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing of the National Register;



      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary
of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a
registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the
Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;



      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic
places in states with historic preservation programs, which have been
approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or



      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic
places in communities with historic preservation programs that have been
certified by either (i) an approved state program as determined by the
Secretary of the Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior
in states without approved programs.



   W.   Lowest floor - The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building, including a "basement," as defined in this section, except when the
criteria listed in the definition of "Enclosed Area Below Lowest Floor" are
met.



   X.   Minor projects - Small development activities (except for
filling, grading and excavating) valued at less than $500.



   Y.   New construction (new buildings, factory-built home parks) -
Those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.



   Z.   New factory-built home park or subdivision - A factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the effective date of the first
floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.



   AA.   One-hundred (100) year flood - A flood, the magnitude of which
has a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or
which, on the average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 100
years. See also, "Base flood."



   BB.   Recreational vehicle - A vehicle which is built on a single
chassis; 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection; designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
a temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.



   CC.   Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities -
Repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that
do not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a
general improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such
repairs include:



      (1)   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing,
replacing roofing tiles and replacing siding;



      (2)   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling,
carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work;



      (3)   Basement sealing;



      (4)   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes; or



      (5)   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating
or air conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.



   DD.   Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) - The land within a community
subject to the "base flood," as defined in this section. This land is
identified on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE,
AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.



   EE.   Start of construction - Includes substantial improvement, and
means the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start
of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement,
or other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual
start means either (i) the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation
of pile, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or (ii) the placement of a factory-built home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the building.



   FF.   Structure - Anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and other similar uses.



   GG.   Substantial damage - Damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials
shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.



   HH.   Substantial improvement - Any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:



      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure either (i) before the "start of construction" of the
improvement; or (ii) if the structure has been "substantially damaged" and is
being restored, before the damage occurred. This term includes structures
which have incurred substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either (i) any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of State or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement officer, and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or (ii) any alteration that will not preclude
the structure's continued designation as an historic structure.



      (2)   Any addition which increases the original floor area of
a building by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed on or after dated
February 1, 2019, the effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map, shall
be added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase
in original floor space would exceed 25 percent.



   II.   Variance - A grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.



   JJ.   Violation - The failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations.



9.   Flood Plain Overlay Zone Established. The areas of the City
identified by the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Polk County and
Incorporated Areas, City of Ankeny, Panels 19153C0045F, 0065F, 0070F, 0185F,
0205F, 0210F, 0215F, 0220F, dated February 1, 2019, were prepared as part of
the Polk County Flood Insurance Study; shall be used to identify flood hazard
areas, and all areas shown thereon to be within the boundaries of the
100-year flood shall be considered as a flood plain overlay zone. The precise
location of the 100-year flood boundary and the location at a particular site
in question shall be determined by scaling distances on the official flood
plain zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
the boundaries of the district as shown on the official zoning map, the
Zoning Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present their case and submit technical evidence. Where the
100-year flood elevation is locally calculated by a registered engineer and
delineated upon a preliminary and/or final plat drawing, this line shall be
used to delineate the flood plain boundary and the hydrological data used
shall be retained on file in the City Engineer's office.



10.   Flood Plain Subdistricts Established. The floodplain areas within
the jurisdiction of this Ordinance are divided into the following
subdistricts:



   A.   Floodway (Overlay) Subdistrict (FW). The floodway subdistrict
shall be consistent with the boundaries of the floodway as shown on the
Official Flood Plain Zoning Map.



   B.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) Subdistrict (FF). The floodway fringe
subdistrict shall be those areas identified as Zone AE on the Official Flood
Plain Zoning Map, but excluding those areas identified as Floodway.



   C.   General Flood Plain (Overlay) Subdistrict (GF). The general
flood plain subdistrict shall be those areas identified as Zone A on the
Official Flood Plain Zoning Map.



11.   Flood Plain Subdistrict Regulations. Uses within the flood plain
overlay zone shall be restricted in accordance with the following subdistrict
regulations:



   A.   Floodway (Overlay) Subdistrict (FW).



      (1)   Permitted Uses. All uses within the Floodway District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district), and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway District.



      (2)   Performance Standards.  All floodway subdistrict uses
allowed as a permitted or conditional use shall meet the following standards:



         a.   No use shall be permitted in the floodway
subdistrict that would result in any increase in the base flood elevation.
Consideration of the effects of any development on flood levels shall be
based upon the assumption that an equal degree of development would be
allowed for similarly situated lands.



         b.   All uses within the floodway subdistrict shall (i)
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage; (ii) use construction
methods and practices that will minimize flood damage; and (iii) use
construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to flood
damage.



         c.   No use shall affect the capacity or conveyance of
the channel or floodway or any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch,
or any other drainage facility or system.



         d.   Structures, buildings and sanitary and utility
systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards of the
floodway fringe subdistrict, and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.



         e.   Buildings, if permitted, shall have a low flood
damage potential and shall not be for human habitation.



         f.   Storage of equipment or materials that are buoyant,
flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material may be allowed if readily removable
from the floodway subdistrict within the time available after flood warning.



         g.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel
changes and modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such
alterations or relocations must be approved by the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources.



         h.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to
have some beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount
necessary.



         i.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried
in the streambed and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering or due to the action of
flood flows.



   B.   Flood Fringe (Overlay) Subdistrict (FF).



      (1)   Permitted Uses. All uses within the floodway fringe
subdistrict shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by
any other ordinance or underlying zoning district, and provided they meet
applicable performance standards of the floodway fringe subdistrict.



      (2)   Performance Standards. All uses must be consistent with
the need to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable
performance standards. Where 100-year flood data has not been provided on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be
contacted to compute such data. The applicant will be responsible for
providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical
information to make such determination.



         a.   All structures shall (i) be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure; (ii) be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
and (iii) be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.



         b.   Residential structures - All new or substantially
improved residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including
basements, elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
Construction shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no
lower than one foot above the base flood elevation, and extend at such
elevation at least 18 feet beyond the limits of any structure erected
thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers or extended
foundations) may be allowed, subject to favorable consideration by the Board
of Adjustment and issuance of a conditional use permit, where existing
topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In
such cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure, as
well as withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.
All new residential structures located in areas that would become isolated
due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of
access that will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood;
however, this criterion shall not apply where the Administrator determines
there is sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and
property. When estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to
the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.



         c.   Non-residential structures - All new or
substantially improved non-residential structures shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the state of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
base flood; and that the structure, below the base flood elevation, is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A
record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are floodproofed
shall be maintained by the Zoning Administrator.



         d.   In all new and substantially improved structures,
fully enclosed areas below the "lowest floor" (not including basements) that
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria: (i) A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided; (ii) The bottom of all openings shall be no
higher than one foot above grade; and (iii) Openings may be equipped with
screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they
permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Such areas shall be used
solely for parking of vehicles, building access and low damage potential
storage.



         e.   New and substantially improved structures must be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.



         f.   New and substantially improved structures must be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities elevated or floodproofed to a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation.



         g.   All new and substantially improved factory-built
homes, including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or
subdivisions, shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors, as required by the State
Building Code.



         h.   All new and substantially improved factory-built
homes, including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or
subdivisions, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one foot above the 100-year
flood level.



         i.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize and eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into
the system, as well as the discharge of effluent into floodwaters. Wastewater
treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a
level of flood protection equal to or greater than one foot above the
100-year flood elevation.



         j.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems
shall be located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or
contamination from the system during flooding.



         k.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system. Water supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall
be provided with a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot
above the 100-year flood elevation.



         l.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall
be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the
system and the risk associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.



         m.   Storage of materials and equipment that are
flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood
level. Other material and equipment shall either be similarly elevated or (i)
not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due
to floodwaters; or (ii) be readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.



         n.   Flood control structural works such as levees,
flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a 100-year
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard, and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage.  In addition, structural flood control works
shall be approved by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.



         o.   No use shall affect the capacity or conveyance of
the channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch,
or other drainage facility or system.



         p.   Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.



         q.   Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks
and subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages
and shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards.
Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all lots
with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the
base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.



         r.   The exemption of detached garages, sheds, and
similar structures from the 100-year flood elevation requirements may result
in increased premium rates for insurance coverage of the structure and
contents; however, such detached garages, sheds, and similar accessory type
structures are exempt from the 100-year flood elevation requirements when (i)
its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft.; (ii) those portions of the structure
located less than 1-foot above BFE must be constructed of flood-resistant
materials; (iii) the structure shall not be used for human habitation; (iv)
the structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential such as
vehicle parking and limited storage; (v) the structure shall be constructed
and placed on the building site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow
of floodwaters; (vi) structures shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement; (vii) the structure's service facilities such
as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at
least one foot above the base flood elevation; and (viii) the structure's
walls shall include openings that satisfy the provisions of Section 11.B(2)d.
of this Ordinance.



         s.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the
requirements of Section 11.B(2)g-h. of this Ordinance regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied:
(i) The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less than 180
consecutive days; and (ii) The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed
and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently
attached additions. Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for
more than 180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy
requirements of Section 11.B(2)g-h. of this Ordinance regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes.



         t.   Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried
in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.



   C.   General Flood Plain (Overlay) Subdistrict (FP).



      (1)   Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be permitted
within the general flood plain subdistrict to the extent they are not
prohibited by any other ordinance or underlying zoning district; and provided
they meet the applicable performance standards of the General Floodplain
District.



      (2)   Any uses which involve placement of structures,
factory-built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or
equipment, excavation or alteration of a watercourse may be allowed only upon
issuance of a conditional use permit by the Board of Adjustment, as provided
for in Section 14 of this Ordinance. All such uses shall be reviewed by the
Department of Natural Resources to determine (i) whether the land involved is
either wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe and (ii) the
base flood elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
the determination.



      (3)   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is
not required for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or
culverts where (i) the bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains
less than 2 square miles; and (ii) the bridge or culvert is not associated
with a channel modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in
567-71.2(2), Iowa Administrative Code.



      (4)   Performance Standards.



         a.   All uses, conditional uses, or portions thereof, to
be located in the floodway as determined by the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources shall meet the applicable provisions and standards of the floodway
(overlay) subdistrict.



         b.   All conditional uses, or portions thereof, to be
located in the floodway fringe as determined by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources shall meet the applicable standards of the floodway fringe
(overlay) subdistrict.



12.   Flood Plain Development Permit.



   A.   Permit Required. A flood plain development permit issued by the
Zoning Administrator shall be secured prior to initiation of any flood plain
development (any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations) including the
placement of factory-built homes.



   B.   Application for Permit. Application for a flood plain
development permit shall be made on forms supplied by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following information:



      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is to be made;



      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to
be done (i.e., lot, block, tract, street address or similar description) that
will readily identify and locate the work to be done;



      (3)   Location and dimensions of all buildings and building
alterations;



      (4)   Identification of the use or occupancy for which the
proposed work is intended;



      (5)   Elevation of the 100-year flood;



      (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of buildings, or of the level
to which a building is to be floodproofed;



      (7)   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated
cost of improvements and market value of the building prior to the
improvements; and



      (8)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator deems
reasonably necessary for the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance.



   C.   Action on Permit Application. The Zoning Administrator shall,
within a reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed
flood plain development meets the applicable provisions and standards of this
Zoning Ordinance, and shall approve or disapprove the application. For
disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the specific
reasons therefor. The Zoning Administrator shall not issue permits for
conditional uses or variances except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.



   D.   Construction and Use to be as Provided in Application and
Plans. Flood plain development permits issued on the basis of approved plans
and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set
forth in such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement,
or construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this section and shall be
punishable as provided in Section 193.01.21 of this Ordinance. The applicant
shall be required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land
surveyor (as appropriate) registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished
fill, building floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection
measures were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this section,
prior to the use or occupancy of any structure.



13.   Administration.



   A.   Duties and Responsibilities. The Zoning Administrator is hereby
appointed to implement and administer the provisions of this Ordinance and
will herein be referred to as the Administrator.



   B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include,
but not necessarily be limited to the following:



      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to
assure that the provisions of this Ordinance will be satisfied.



      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure
that all necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.



      (3)   Record and maintain a record of (i) the elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, or (ii)
the elevation to which new or substantially improved structures have been
floodproofed.



      (4)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department
of Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.



      (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
Ordinance.



      (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual
report concerning the community's participation, utilizing the annual report
form supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.



      (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any
annexations or modifications to the community's boundaries.



      (8)   Maintain the accuracy of the community's Flood Insurance
Rate Maps when:



         a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay)
District results in (i) an increase in the Base Flood Elevations, or (ii)
alteration to the floodway boundary.



         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30
that does not include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more
than one foot in the base elevation; or



         c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.



      Within 6 months of the completion of the development, the
applicant shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary
for a Letter of Map Revision.



      (9)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this Ordinance.



14.   Conditional Uses. Requests for conditional uses shall be submitted
to the Zoning Administrator who shall forward such to the Board of Adjustment
for consideration. Such requests shall include information ordinarily
submitted with applications as well as any additional information deemed
necessary to the Board of Adjustment.



15.   Appeals. Where it is alleged there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this section, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board of Adjustment and with the
official from whom the appeal is taken, and shall set forth the specific
reason for the appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record
upon which the action appealed from was taken.



16.   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may authorize, upon request in
specific cases, such variances from the terms of this section that will not
be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this section will result in
unnecessary hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable
standards:



   A.   No variance shall be granted for any development within any
designated floodway which would result in any increase in the 100-year level.
Consideration of the effects of any development on flood levels shall be
based upon the assumption that an equal degree of development would be
allowed for similarly situated lands.



   B.   Variances shall only be granted upon:



      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;



      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;



      (3)   A determination that the granting of the variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense; create nuisances, or cause fraud on or
victimization of the public; and



      (4)   A determination that the variance is the minimum
necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.



   C.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this Zoning
Ordinance, the applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of
the Zoning Administrator that:



      (1)   The issuance of a variance will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as 25 dollars for 100
dollars of insurance coverage; and



      (2)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.



   D.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of
the Department of Natural Resources.



17.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal,
an application for a conditional use or a request for a variance, the board
shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to parties in
interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney, and present written or oral evidence. The Board may require the
appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably deemed
necessary, and may request the technical assistance and/or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.



18.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal,
conditional use, or variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an
appeal, the Board may, so long as such action is in conformity with the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from; and
it shall make its decision in writing, setting forth the findings of fact and
the reasons for its decision. In granting a conditional use or variance, the
Board shall consider such factors as contained in this section and all other
relevant sections of this Zoning Ordinance, and may prescribe such conditions
as contained in Section 193.01.20.



19.   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for conditional uses or requests for variances, the
Board shall consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this
Zoning Ordinance and:



   A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments;



   B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;



   C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions;



   D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage, and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;



   E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;



   F.   The requirements of the facility for a flood plain location;



   G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use;



   H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;



   I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and flood plain management program for the area;



   J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;



   K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site;



   L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities
(sewer, gas, electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges;
and



   M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
Zoning Ordinance.



20.   Conditions Attached to Conditional Uses or Variances. Upon
consideration of the factors listed above, the Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of conditional uses or variances as it deems
necessary to further the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance. Such conditions
may include, but not necessarily be limited to:



   A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities;



   B.   Limitation on periods of use and operation;



   C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions;



   D.   Requirements of channel modification, dikes, levees, and other
protective measures, provided such are approved by the Department of Natural
Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative to achieving the
purposes of this Zoning Ordinance; or



   E.   Floodproofing Measures. Floodproofing measures shall be
designed consistent with the flood protection elevation for the particular
area, flood velocities, durations, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
forces, and other factors associated with the regulatory flood. The Board of
Adjustment shall require that the applicant submit a plan or document
certified by a registered professional engineer that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.



21.   Penalties for Violation. Violations of the provisions of this
Ordinance or failure to comply with any of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances) shall be considered a municipal infraction punishable by civil
penalty provided in Chapter 4 of the Ankeny Municipal Code.



22.   Amendments. The regulations and standards set forth in this
Ordinance may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or
repealed. No amendment, supplement, change, or modification shall be
undertaken without prior approval of the Department of Natural Resources.




(Chapter 193 - Ord. 1958 - Feb. 19 Supp.)




CHAPTER 194
ZONING ORDINANCE
PARKING, LOADING
AND
SCREENING



 

194.01  Off-Street Parking and Loading
 
194.02  Screening



 



194.01    OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.



1.   Number of Parking Spaces Required.



   A.   All developments in all zoning districts other than the C-2A
district shall provide a sufficient number of off-street parking spaces to
accommodate the number of vehicles that ordinarily are likely to be attracted
to the development in question.



   B.   The presumptions established by this section are that:  (i) a
development must comply with the parking standards set forth in paragraph E
of this section to satisfy the requirement stated in paragraph A; and (ii)
any development that does meet these standards is in compliance.  However,
the table of parking requirements is only intended to establish a presumption
and should be flexibly administered as provided in subsection 2.



   C.   In determining the number of parking spaces required by the
table of parking requirements, if a fractional space results, any fraction
less than one-half may be disregarded while fractions in excess of one-half
shall be counted as one parking space.



   D.   The City Council recognizes that the table of parking
requirements set forth in paragraph E of this section cannot and does not
cover every possible situation that may arise.  Therefore, in cases not
specifically covered, the Department Director is authorized to determine the
parking requirements using this table as a guide.



   E.   Table of Parking Requirements.



 



Use
 
Parking Requirement


Residential:
 


Single-family
 
2 spaces per dwelling unit plus one space per room rented out


Two-family
 
2 spaces for each dwelling unit, except that one-bedroom units require only
one space


Multifamily
 
With respect to multifamily units located in buildings where each dwelling
unit has an entrance and living space on the ground floor, the requirement
shall be 1½ spaces for each one bedroom unit and 2 spaces for each unit with
2 or more bedrooms.  Multifamily units limited to persons of low or moderate
income or the elderly require only 1 space per unit.  All other multifamily
units require 1 space for each bedroom in each unit plus 1 additional space
for every 4 units in the development.


Homes emphasizing special services,
treatment, or supervision
 
3 spaces for every five beds except for uses exclusively serving children
under 16, in which case 1 space for every 3 beds shall be required


Miscellaneous, Rooms-For-Rent Situations:


Boardinghouses, rooming houses
 
1 space for each bedroom


Tourist homes and other temporary
residences renting by the day or week
 
1 space for each room to be rented plus additional space (in accordance with
other sections of this table) for restaurant or other facilities


Hotels, motels and similar businesses or institutions providing overnight
accommodations
 
1 space for each room to be rented plus additional space (in accordance with
other sections of this table) for restaurant or other facilities


Home occupations
 
Demand established by particular home occupation authorized


Sales and Rental of Goods, Merchandise and Equipment:


No Storage or Display of Goods Outside Fully Enclosed Building:


Storage – Miscellaneous
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Convenience stores
 
1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area


Low-volume traffic
 
1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area


Wholesale sales
 
1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area


Storage and Display of Goods Outside Fully Enclosed Building Allowed:


High-volume traffic generation
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Low-volume traffic generation
 
1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area


Wholesale sales
 
1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area


Use
 
Parking Requirement


Office, Clerical Research and Services Not Primarily Related to Goods or
Merchandise:


All Operations Conducted Within Fully Enclosed Building:


Operations designed to attract and serve customers or clients on the
premises, such as the offices of attorneys, physicians, other professions,
insurance and stock brokers, travel agents, government office buildings, etc.
 

1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Operations designed to attract little or no customer or client traffic other
than employees of the entity operating the principal use
 
1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area


Office or clinics of physicians or dentists with not more than 10,000 square
feet of gross floor area
 
1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area


Operations Conducted Within or Outside Fully Enclosed Building:


Operations designed to attract and serve customers or clients on the premises
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Operations designed to attract little or no customer or client traffic other
than the employees of the entity operating the principal use
 
1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area


Banks with drive-in windows
 
1 space per 200 square feet of area within main building plus reservoir land
capacity equal to 5 spaces per window (10 spaces if window serves 2 stations)


Manufacturing, Processing, Creating, Repairing, Renovating, Painting,
Cleaning, Assembly of Goods, Merchandise and Equipment


All Operations Conducted Entirely Within a Fully Enclosed Building:


Majority of dollar volume of business done with walk-in trade
 
1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area


Majority of dollar volume of business not done with walk-in trade
 
1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift except that, if
permissible in the commercial districts, such uses may provide 1 space per
200 square feet of gross floor area


Operations conducted within or outside fully enclosed building
 
Same as above


Educational, Cultural, Religious, Philanthropic, Social, Fraternal Uses


Schools:
 


Elementary, middle, and junior high schools (including associated grounds and
other facilities)

High School  (including associated grounds and other facilities)
 
2.   spaces per classroom

5 spaces per classroom


Trade or vocational schools
 
1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area




 



 



Use
 
Parking Requirement


Colleges, universities, community colleges (including associated facilities
such as dormitories, office buildings, athletic fields, etc.)
 
1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area


Churches, synagogues, and temples
 
1 space for every 80 square feet of worship area plus one space for every 2
employees with sufficient space for safe and convenient loading and unloading


Libraries, museums, art galleries, art centers, and similar uses (including
associated educational and instructional activities)
 
1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area


Social, fraternal clubs and lodges, union halls, and similar uses
 
1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area


Recreation, Amusement, Entertainment
 
 


Activity Conducted Entirely Within Building or Substantial Structure:


Bowling alleys, skating rinks, indoor tennis and squash courts, billiard and
pool halls, indoor athletic and exercise facilities and similar uses
 
1 space for every 3 persons that the facilities are designed to accommodate
when fully utilized (if they can be measured in such a fashion—for example,
tennis courts or bowling alleys) plus 1 space per 200 square feet of gross
floor area used in a manner not susceptible to such calculation


Movie theaters
 
1 space for every 4 seats


Coliseums, stadiums, and all other facilities listed in the  “Activity
Conducted Entirely Within  Building or Substantial Structure”
classification above  designed to seat or accommodate simultaneously more
than 1,000 people
 
1 space for every 4 seats


Activity Conducted Primarily Outside Enclosed Buildings or Structures:


Privately owned recreational facilities such as golf and country clubs,
swimming or tennis clubs, etc., (not constructed as an amenity only for the
residents of a  residential development)
 
1 space per 200 square feet of area within enclosed buildings, plus 1 space
for every 3 persons that outdoor facilities are designed to accommodate when
used to the maximum capacity


Publicly owned and outdoor recreational facilities such as athletic fields,
golf courses, tennis courts, swimming pools, parks, etc. not constructed
pursuant to a permit authorizing the construction of another use such as a
school
 
Same as above


Miniature golf course, skateboard park, water slide and similar uses
 
1 space per 300 square feet of area plus 1 space per 200 square feet of
building gross floor area


Driving range
 
1 space per tee plus 1 space per 200 square feet of building gross floor area


Par three course
 
2 spaces per golf hole plus 1 space per 200 square feet of building gross
floor area


Horseback riding stables (not constructed as an amenity only for the
residents of a  residential development)
 
1 space per horse that could be kept at the stable when occupied to maximum
capacity


Automobile and motorcycle racing tracks
 
1 space for every 3 seats


Drive-in movie theaters
 
1 space per speaker outlet


Use
 
Parking Requirement


Institutional Residence or Care or Confinement Facilities


Hospitals, clinics, other medical (including mental health) treatment
facilities in excess of 10,000 square feet of floor area
 
2 spaces per bed or 1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area,
whichever is greater


Nursing care institutions, intermediate care institutions, handicapped or
infirm institutions

Child-care institutions serving children under 16 years of age exclusively
 
3 spaces for every 5 beds.

1 space for every 3 beds


Institutions (other than halfway houses where mentally ill persons are
confined)
 
1 space for every 2 employees on maximum shift


Penal and correctional facilities
 
1 space for every 2 employees on maximum shift


Restaurants, Bars, Nightclubs


No substantial carry-out or delivery service, no drive-in service, no service
or consumption outside fully enclosed structure allowed
 
1 space for 100 square feet of gross floor area


No substantial carry-out or delivery service, no drive-in service, service or
consumption outside fully enclosed structure allowed
 
Same as above, plus 1 space for every 4 outside seats


Carry-out and delivery service, consumption outside fully enclosed structure
allowed
 
Same as above


Carry-out and delivery service, drive-in service, service or consumption
outside fully enclosed structure allowed
 
Same as above plus reservoir lane capacity equal to 5 spaces per drive-in
window


Motor Vehicle Related Sales and Service Operations


Motor vehicle sales or rental; mobile home sales
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Sales with installation of motor vehicle parts or accessories (e.g., tires,
mufflers, etc.)
 
Same as above


Motor vehicle repair and maintenance, not including substantial body work
 
Same as above


Motor vehicle painting and body work
 
Same as above


Gas sales
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area of building devoted primarily
to gas sales operation, plus sufficient parking area to accommodate vehicles
at pumps without interfering with other parking spaces


Carwash
 
 


Conveyor type
 
1 space for every 3 employees on the maximum shift plus reservoir capacity
equal to 5 times the capacity of the washing operation


Self-service type
 
2 spaces for drying and cleaning purposes per stall plus two reservoir spaces
in front of each stall


Use
 
Parking Requirement


Storage and Parking
 
 


Storage of Goods Not Related To Sale or Use of Those Goods on the Same Lot
Where They Are Stored


All storage within completely enclosed structures
 
1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift but not less than 1 space
per 5,000 square feet of area devoted to storage (whether inside or outside)


Storage inside or outside completely enclosed structures
 
Same as above


Scrap materials, salvage yards, junkyard, automobile graveyards
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Services and enterprises related to animals
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Emergency services
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Agricultural, silvicultural, mining, quarrying operations
 
1 space for every 2 employees on maximum shift


Miscellaneous Public and Semi-Public Facilities


Post office
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Airport
 
Same as above


Sanitary landfill
 
1 space for every 2 employees on maximum shift


Military reserve, National Guard centers
 
1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area


Dry cleaner, Laundromat
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Open air markets and horticultural sales
 
1 space per 1,000 square feet of lot area used for storage, display, or sales


Funeral home
 
1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area


Cemetery
 
No requirement


Crematorium
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Nursery Schools and Day Care Centers
 
 


Nursery schools/Preschool
 
1 space per employee plus 1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area


Day care centers
 
Same as nursery schools, plus 1 space per 5,000 square feet of gross floor
area or any portion thereof


Bus station, train station
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area


Commercial greenhouse operations
 
1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area




 



2.   Flexibility in Administration.



   A.   The Council recognizes that, due to particularities of any
given development, the inflexible application of the parking standards set
forth in paragraph E of subsection 1 may result in a development either with
inadequate parking space or parking space far in excess of its needs.  The
former situation may lead to traffic congestion or parking violations in
adjacent streets as well as unauthorized parking in nearby private lots. 
The latter situation wastes money as well as space that could more desirably
be used for valuable development or environmentally useful open space. 
Therefore, the Department Director may permit deviations from the presumptive
requirements of paragraph E and may require more parking or allow less
parking whenever such deviations are more likely to satisfy the standard set
forth in paragraph 1(A) of this section.



   B.   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Department Director may allow deviations from the parking requirements set
forth in paragraph 1(E) of this section when:  (i) a residential development
is irrevocably oriented toward the elderly; or (ii) a business is primarily
oriented to walk-in trade.



   C.   Whenever the Department Director allows or requires a deviation
from the presumptive requirements set forth in paragraph 1(E) of this
section, the Director shall enter on the face of the permit the information
indicating the requirement to be imposed and the reasons for allowing or
requiring the deviation.



   D.   If the Department Director concludes, based upon information
received in the consideration of a specific development proposal, that the
presumption established by paragraph 1(E) of this section for a particular
use classification is erroneous, the Director shall initiate a request for
amendment to the table of parking requirements in accordance with appropriate
procedures.



   E.   Any person aggrieved by the actions of the Department 
Director may, within ten days of such decision, file with the Clerk a notice
of appeal specifying the reasons therefor.  The Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall thereupon fix a reasonable time for the hearing on such appeal, and
notify the parties accordingly.  At such hearing the Zoning Board of
Adjustment may affirm the decision of the Department Director, or may modify
said decision by requiring more or less parking spaces, if necessary, to
insure compliance with the intent of this section.



3.   Off-Street Display and Storage Areas.  In all districts in
connection with every industrial, commercial, business, trade, institutional,
recreational, or dwelling use, and similar uses, space for the storage and/or
display area of vehicles and equipment when required and/or provided shall
have driveways and access drives permanently surfaced with an asphaltic or
Portland cement binder pavement and where possible be part of a storm water
detention area.



4.   Off-Street Parking, Display and Storage – Unmentioned Uses.  In
case of any building, structure or premises, the total of which is not
specifically mentioned in this Zoning Ordinance, the provisions for a use
which is so mentioned and to which such use is similar in its demand for
parking shall apply.



5.   Off-Street Parking – ––––Access Drive–– Required. 
Where a parking area does not abut a public or private alley or easement of
access, there shall be provided a permanently surfaced access drive, not less
than eight feet in width in case of a dwelling and not less than sixteen feet
in width in all other cases, leading to the loading or unloading spaces and
parking or storage areas required under the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance in such manner as to secure the most appropriate development of the
property in question; provided, however, such easement of access or access
drive shall not be located in any residence district, except where serving a
permitted use in a residence district.



6.   Off-Street Parking – Requirements Generally.  Every parcel of land
used as a public or private parking area after the effective date of the
Zoning Ordinance shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the
following requirements:



   A.   No part of any parking area shall be closer than five feet to
any established street right-of-way, alley, or property line.  In case the
parking area adjoins any R district, it shall be effectively screened in
accordance with the standard for an opaque screen, type “C” as described
in Section 194.02(3)(C).  In case the parking area adjoins a street
right-of-way or is located within a front yard it shall be effectively
screened through the use of earthen berms and/or landscaping to a height of
thirty inches.



   B.   All parking space, driveways and access drives shall be
surfaced with an asphaltic or Portland cement binder pavement, or such other
surfaces as shall be approved by the building official or inspector, so as to
provide durable and dustless surface; shall be so graded and drained as to
dispose of all surface water accumulations within the area; and shall be so
arranged and marked as to provide for orderly and safe loading or unloading
and parking and storage of self-propelled vehicles.



   C.   Any lighting used to illuminate any parking area shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any R
district or residential use.  Any such lighting arrangement shall prevent
nuisance and provide safety to the public.



   D.   Parking Area Layout Criteria.  Parking areas are encouraged to
be located in side and rear yards.  Parking areas shall be designed to
accommodate traffic volumes and consideration should be given to pedestrian
circulation through the parking area.  The use of islands, medians, and
curbing is encouraged to delineate parking spaces from traffic and pedestrian
circulation areas.  Where the code specifies parking space that space size
shall be determined in accordance with the layout criteria and the table of
standard dimensions.  Stalls for persons with disabilities shall be provided
as required by the Code of Iowa.  The spaces shall be delineated to define
their boundaries exclusive of driveways, except for one and two family
dwelling units, and shall be shown as a part of the parking lot plan on the
site plan drawing.  The schedules of standard parking stall dimensions in
Exhibits A and B set out following this section are adopted.



   E.   Parking Area Landscaping.  Parking areas shall be required to
provide natural shading, through the use of deciduous trees, in an amount
equal to twenty percent of the parking area.  Trees used for this purpose
should be those encouraged as street trees and will be presumed to shade a
circular area having a radius of fifteen feet.  New trees used for this
purpose shall be located so that they are surrounded by at least one hundred
ninety square feet of unpaved area.  New and existing trees should be
protected from damage by vehicles.




EXHIBIT “A”
SCHEDULE OF STANDARD DIMENSIONS
















PARALLEL PARKING










 




EXHIBIT “B”
SCHEDULE OF STANDARD DIMENSIONS





















 



7.   Off-Street Parking – Residential Districts.  Off-street parking
areas in residential districts shall be provided on the same lot with the
principal use.  No such off-street parking area shall be located in any
required front yard of a multiple dwelling or project in front of the
required building setback line of that zone or the zoning of any adjacent
front yard of adjoining property.



8.   Off-Street Loading – Spaces Required.  In any district in
connection with every building or part thereof erected after the effective
date of the Zoning Ordinance, which is to be occupied by manufacturing,
storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store, wholesale store, market,
hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses similarly
requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the same lot with such building at
least one off-street loading space, plus one additional such loading space
for each 10,000 square feet or major fraction thereof of gross floor area so
used.



194.02    SCREENING. 



The intent of screening regulations is to lessen the transmission from one
lot to another of noise, dust, and glare; to lessen visual pollution by
providing an impression of separation of spaces or entirely shielding one
land use from another; and/or establishing a sense of privacy from visual or
physical intrusion.  The provisions of this section are necessary to
safeguard the public health, safety, and welfare.



1.   General Screening Standard.  Every development shall provide
sufficient screening so that neighboring properties are shielded from any
adverse external effects of that development; and the development is shielded
from the negative impacts of adjacent uses including streets and railroads.



2.   Compliance with General Standard.



   A.   The following table, in conjunction with the explanations set
forth in subsection 3 concerning types of screens, establishes screening
requirements that presumptively satisfy the general standard established in
subsection 1 of this section.




TABLE OF SCREENING REQUIREMENTS





Benefited Zoning Classification/Use




 



Use
 
R1
 
R2
 
R3
 
R3A
 
R4
 
R5
 
C1
 
C2
 
C2A
 
C3
 
C4
 
C5
 
M1
 
M2
 
M3
 
PUD
 
U1


R-1
 
-
 
-
 
A
 
*
 
*
 
A
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


R-2
 
-
 
-
 
A
 
*
 
*
 
A
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


R-3
 
A
 
A
 
-
 
*
 
*
 
-
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


R-3A
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*


R-5
 
A
 
A
 
-
 
*
 
*
 
-
 
A
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


C-1
 
B
 
B
 
A
 
*
 
*
 
A
 
-
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


C-2
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
*
 
*
 
B
 
A
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


C-2A
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
*
 
*
 
B
 
A
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


C-3
 
B
 
B
 
B
 
*
 
*
 
B
 
A
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
-


M-1
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
*
 
-
 
B
 
C
 
*
 
-


M-2
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
*
 
B
 
-
 
C
 
*
 
-


M-3
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
C
 
*
 
*
 
C
 
C
 
-
 
*
 
-


PUD
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
*
 
-


U-1
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
*
 
*
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-


* Screening to be approved with site plan review.




 



   B.   The zoning classifications contained in paragraph A of this
subsection, Table of Screening Requirements, are keyed to those
classifications described in Chapter 192 of this Zoning Ordinance.  The
letter designations within the table refer to the types of screening
described in subsection 3 of this section.  The table indicates the type of
screening that is presumptively required between two uses.  Where such
screening is required the applicant or burdened/heavier use is responsible
for installation prior to receiving an occupancy permit for the use in
question.



3.   Descriptions of Screens.  The following three basic types of screens
are established and are used as the basis for the table of screening
requirements set forth in paragraph 2(A) of this section.



   A.   Broken Screen, Type A – a screen composed of intermittent
visual obstructions from the ground to a height of at least 20 feet.  The
broken screen is intended to create the impression of a separation of spaces
without necessarily eliminating visual contact between the spaces.  It may
be composed of a wall, fence, landscaped earth berm, planted vegetation, or
existing vegetation.  Compliance of planted vegetative screens or natural
vegetation will be judged on the basis of the average mature height and
density of foliage of the subject species, or field observation of existing
vegetation.  The screen may contain deciduous plants.



   B.   Semi-Opaque Screen, Type B – a screen that is opaque from the
ground to a height of three feet, with intermittent visual obstruction from
above the opaque portion to a height of at least 20 feet.  The semi-opaque
screen is intended to partially block visual contact between uses and to
create a strong impression of the separation of spaces.  The semi-opaque
screen may be composed of a wall, fence, landscaped earth berm, planted
vegetation, or existing vegetation.  Compliance of planted vegetative
screens or natural vegetation will be judged on the basis of the average
mature height and density of foliage of the subject species, or field
observation of existing vegetation.  At maturity, the portion of
intermittent visual obstructions should not contain any completely
unobstructed openings more than ten feet wide.  The zone of intermittent
visual obstruction may contain deciduous plants.



   C.   Opaque Screen, Type C – a screen that is opaque from the
ground to a height of at least six feet, with intermittent visual
obstructions from the opaque portion to a height of at least 20 feet.  An
opaque screen is intended to exclude all visual contact between uses and to
create a strong impression of spatial separation.  The opaque screen may be
composed of a wall, fence, landscaped earth berm, planted vegetation, or
existing vegetation.  Compliance of planted vegetative screens or natural
vegetation will be judged on the basis of the average mature height and
density of foliage of the subject species, or field observation of existing
vegetation.  The opaque portion of the screen must be opaque in all seasons
of the year.  At maturity, the portion of intermittent visual obstructions
should not contain any completely unobstructed openings more than ten feet
wide.  The portion of intermittent visual obstructions may contain deciduous
plants.



4.   Storage Areas.  The outdoor storage of materials, equipment, or
supplies, when permitted in any commercial or industrial district, shall be
so located or screened, fenced or landscaped so as to effectively prevent
visibility of such storage from all abutting residential zoning districts or
abutting existing residential uses.  Such screening shall be sufficient if
it prevents visibility of such storage area by persons traveling on public
rights-of-way or standing at grade level on the side or rear lot lines of
such property.  Such screening shall comply with the standard for an opaque
screen type “C” as described in paragraph 3(C) of this section.




(Chapter 194 amended by Ord. 1651 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




CHAPTER 195
ZONING ORDINANCE
SIGNS



 

195.01  Intent
 
195.05  Prohibited Signs


195.02  Definitions
 
195.06  Signage Plan


195.03  Signs Allowed Without a Permit
 
195.07  Performance Standards


195.04  Signs Requiring a Permit
 
195.08  Sign Administration



 



195.01    INTENT. 



It is the intent of the provisions of this chapter to achieve the following
objectives:



1.   To establish standards which would permit businesses in the City a
reasonable and equitable opportunity to identify themselves;



2.   To preserve and promote civic beauty and not allow signs which would
detract from this objective because of unusual size, shape, height, location,
condition, cluttering, or illumination;



3.   To insure that signs in the City do not create a safety hazard;



4.   To preserve and protect the value of land and buildings, and to
preserve and protect landscapes;



5.   To insure that every sign has good scale and proportion in
relationship to its site and function, as well as to the signage and use of
neighboring properties; and



6.   To insure that signs are designed as an integral architectural
element of the building and site.



195.02    DEFINITIONS. 



For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



1.   “Advertising sign” means a sign or billboard which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted,
sold, or offered elsewhere than on the premises.



2.   “Allied business” means the same or similar business with common
name such as new and used auto sales.



3.   “Area identification sign” means a freestanding sign which
identifies the name of a commercial or industrial complex consisting of three
or more businesses.



4.   “Area of sign” means that area within the marginal lines or
extreme outside edge of the surface which bears and/or supports the
advertisement (sign cabinet), or in the case of messages, figures, or symbols
attached directly to any part of a building (no sign cabinet), that area
which is included within three geometric shapes which can be made to
circumscribe any message, figure, or symbol displayed thereon.  For a sign
with not more than two back-to-back faces, only the area of one side is
computed in determining the sign area.



5.   “Awning” means an attached canopy or similar structure designed
to provide cover for entrances, walkways, and windows.



6.   “Balloon sign” means an inflatable balloon or device used to draw
attention to a business or product.



7.   “Banded areas” means that portion of a building generally located
along the front which is constructed for purposes of attaching building signs
in a consistent and coordinated manner.



8.   “Banner” means a temporary display of information on material
such as canvas or plastic.



9.   “Bench sign” means a sign attached to or a part of a sitting
bench.



10.   “Billboard sign” – see “advertising sign.”



11.   “Building sign” means a sign attached to the exterior wall of a
building.



12.   “Business sign” means a sign which directs attention to the
business or profession conducted on the premises.  A “For Sale,” “For
Lease” or “Information” sign is deemed a business sign.  In order to
be considered a business sign rather than an advertising sign, all of the
gross surface area of the sign must pertain to the major functions or name of
the business, the trade names of primary products or goods manufactured or
sold on the premises.



13.   “Changeable sign” means a sign or portion of a sign with
separate inset letters, pictures, and/or symbols which can easily be removed
and which are periodically changed.  See also “reader board sign.”



14.   “Construction sign” means a sign used temporarily at the
construction site identifying the contractors, financer, supplier, and/or
builder.



15.   “Copy area” means the total area of the smallest three geometric
figures that can be drawn around the sign cabinet or message on a sign.



16.   “Development project sign” means a temporary sign located on the
site of a new development, listing owners, developers, builders, and similar
identifying information.



17.   “Directional sign” means a sign erected upon private property to
provide pedestrian or traffic directions and which may bear a company logo or
color scheme in addition to the directional arrow or word message and may
contain no additional advertising information.



18.   “Double face sign” means a sign displaying identical information
on opposite sides.



19.   “Driveway median” means a raised median intended to divide or
channel vehicular traffic.



20.   “Flashing sign” means any illuminated sign on which the
artificial light is not maintained both stationary and constant in intensity
and color at all times when a sign is in use excluding electronic reader
board signs and electronic video signs.



21.   “Freestanding sign” means a pylon or ground sign that is not
part of the principal structure.



22.   “Gasoline pump island canopy” means a structure that provides
shelter over gasoline pump islands.



23.   “Grade of sign” means the lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between
the sign and a line five feet from the sign.



24.   “Ground sign” means a sign, which is not a pylon sign, erected
upon or supported by ground and not attached to any building.



25.   “Identification sign” means a sign which bears the name and/or
address of the occupant of the building.



26.   “Illuminated sign” means any sign which has characters, letters,
figures, design, or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes
as part of the sign proper.



27.   “Informational sign” means a sign, not intended to be viewed
from off-site, that identifies building functions and is attached thereto,
such as car wash bay or drive-in window.



28.   “Major anchor/center sign” means a specially designed, masonry
clad, freestanding sign used to identify single-tenant buildings that are in
excess of 100,000 square feet or multi-tenant centers in excess of 150,000
square feet in building size.



29.   “Menu board” means a sign listing drive-up items in conjunction
with a business serving customers in a car.



30.   “Monument development sign” means a ground sign intended to
permanently identify by name a residential development.



31.   “Moving device” means a device which moves or rotates to attract
attention for advertising purposes.



32.   “Multi-occupancy building” means a building designed to be
occupied by two or more separate businesses.



33.   “Non-commercial sign” means any sign that presents a message
that is political, philosophical, social, or personal and does not advertise
or sell a service, product, or other commercial undertaking.



34.   “Pennant” means a small flag used for decorative purposes or to
attract attention.



35.   “Political sign” means a temporary sign which displays
information pertaining to an upcoming governmental district, city, county,
state, or national election.



36.   “Portable sign” means a sign so designed as to be movable from
one location to another and not permanently attached to the ground or to any
immobile structure.  A portable sign may consist of a panel supported by
legs or wheels and/or a mobile structure such as a trailer, panel truck,
semi-truck trailer, or other device whose primary function during a specific
time period is to be stationary and used as a sign.



37.   “Promotional sign” means a temporary sign which shall not exist
for more than 30 days which promotes civic events or promotions limited to
City-recognized activities, events, and/or celebrations.



38.   “Pylon sign” means a freestanding sign erected upon a single
post or posts or shafts that converge at a common base with the posts not
more than 15 feet apart, with the display portion mounted on top thereof.



39.   “Reader board sign” means a sign with separate inset electronic
panels, letters, and/or symbols or changeable copy which can be easily
removed and which are or is periodically changed.  Electronic message boards
are considered reader board signs if a single message is displayed for not
less than seven (7) seconds and the text messages are in amber or a similar
color with equal or lesser intensity colored lights.  See also “changeable
sign.”



40.   “Real estate sign” means a sign intended to aid on the sale,
rental, or lease of real property.



41.   “Rear identification sign” means a sign located adjacent to the
rear entrance to individual businesses to clearly identify the location for
“deliveries.”  This identification sign shall not be considered in
computing the maximum permitted sign area for a business.



42.   “Revolving sign” means a sign which rotates at a constant rate
of revolutions per minute.



43.   “Roof line” means that line at which an exterior wall surface of
a building structure departs from a vertical plane.



44.   “Setback for a sign” means the shortest distance between a
property or public right-of-way line and the surface or main supporting
structure of a sign, whichever is closest.



45.   “Sign” means an accessory use depicting a name, identification,
description, display, illustration, structure, device which is affixed to or
painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, or other
allowed outdoor surface or a piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or
business.



46.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the
upper surface of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above,
except that the topmost story shall be that portion of a building included
between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above.



47.   “Temporary sign” means any sign which is erected for a limited
time and/or special purpose.



48.   “Traffic directional sign” means a sign erected by a public
agency for the purpose of guiding vehicular and pedestrian traffic in a safe
and convenient manner and which bears no advertising information.



49.   “Video sign” means a sign containing electronic panels capable
of producing full color video images and intended for this purpose to display
full motion video similar to television or motion picture images



50.   “Visibility triangle” means a triangular area established at the
intersection of streets and driveways protected from encroachments greater
than 30 inches tall and intended to protect the line of site of drivers,
pedestrians, and bicyclists.



51.   “Digital advertising sign” means an off-site sign utilizing
digital message technology, capable of changing the static message or copy on
the sign electronically.  A digital advertising sign shall contain static
messages only, and shall not have animation, movement, or the appearance or
optical illusion of movement, of any part of the sign structure, design, or
pictorial segment of the sign.  Each static message shall not include
flashing, scintillating lighting or the varying of light intensity.  A
digital advertising sign shall not be considered a flashing sign, changeable
sign or reader board sign.



(Ord. 1736 – Oct. 12 Supp.)



195.03    SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT. 



The following outdoor signs are permissible without a permit or payment of
permit fees provided the standards and restrictions in this section are met.



1.   Development Project Signs.



   A.   On-Site Residential Sign.  One temporary on-site development
project sign shall be permitted for each plat within a subdivision in any
residential zoning district (including multiple dwelling) under the following
conditions:



      (1)   The sign shall only be permitted for a residential plat
after the final plat has been filed;



      (2)   The sign shall be located at least 30 feet from any
existing or to be occupied dwelling unit;



      (3)   The sign shall be removed when the residential plat is
95% built out or the multiple dwelling project is 75% sold or rented; and



      (4)   Where more than one builder is involved in a residential
plat, there still shall be only one sign as described above, which may list
the builders for the plat.



   B.   On-Site Commercial and Industrial Signs.  One temporary
on-site development project sign shall be permitted in any commercial or
industrial zoning district under the following conditions:



      (1)   The sign shall only be permitted after the final plat
has been filed;



      (2)   The sign shall not be located upon a developed lot and
shall be removed within three months after the lot upon which it is located
is developed, whereupon it may be moved to another vacant lot within the
subdivision; and



      (3)   The sign shall be removed when 95% of the lots in the
plat are built upon.



   C.   Construction Signs.



      (1)   One-Family and Two-Family Residence Districts.  Total
number of signs allowed per street frontage shall not exceed one sign for
each 20 feet of lot frontage on the public or private street.  The aggregate
area of all construction signs shall not exceed 100 square feet.  No
individual sign shall exceed 32 square feet.



      (2)   Multi-Family, Commercial, and Industrial Districts. 
Total number of signs allowed per street frontage shall not exceed one sign
for each 50 feet of lot frontage on the public or private street.  The
aggregate area of all construction signs shall not exceed 200 square feet. 
No individual sign shall exceed 64 square feet.



This sign or signs shall only be permitted while development or construction
activity is occurring on the project and shall be removed before the building
or any part thereof is occupied.



2.   Informational Signs.



   A.   Informational signs, attached to a building, shall be permitted
in order to locate building functions such as a car wash bay or drive-in
window.



   B.   Informational signs shall meet building sign requirements for
maximum height, shall be allowed for each bay, door, or window at a size not
to exceed six square feet in area each, and shall be in addition to any other
business signs permitted by this chapter.



3.   Directional Signs.



   A.   On-site directional signs, not exceeding a maximum of two
square feet per sign, shall be permitted in any multi-family, commercial,
industrial, or institutional zoning district for the purpose of directing
vehicular or pedestrian traffic in a safe and convenient manner.



   B.   Off-site directional signs may be permitted by the City Council
to direct the public to emergency facilities.



4.   Real Estate Signs.1



   A.   One temporary sign per street frontage advertising buildings
for rent and for sale shall be permitted in the front yard or front side of
the building.  The sign shall be removed within ten days after the property
is rented or the closing of the sale.



   B.   Open house signs, which state that a particular house will be
open for inspection by the public for a limited number of hours on a specific
day, only during the day of the open house.  Signs may be placed within a
½-mile radius of the open house except as noted in paragraph C of this
subsection.



   C.   Open house and for sale signs shall not be placed within street
rights-of-way, easements, roadway surface, sidewalks, medians, and decorative
surfaces, or within 300 feet of major arterial street intersections.  Any
sign so placed is a nuisance and traffic hazard and is hereby determined to
be in violation of the sign regulations.



1 The provisions of this section become effective on July 1, 2008.



5.   Promotional Signs.  In promotion of a special civic event recognized
by the City Council, signs not exceeding 32 square feet in area, for each
sign, are permissible for no more than 60 days before the first day of an
event, celebration, or festival and shall be removed immediately upon the
completion of the event, celebration, or festival.  Signs permitted under
this subsection may be located in any zoning district subject to the
permission of the property owner.



6.   Pump Island Signs.  A double faced or a single face sign with a
single side not in excess of three square feet shall be permitted on each
gasoline pump and not intended to be viewed from off-site.



7.   Pedestrian Awning or Canopy Sign.  A business sign, limited to one
foot in height and six feet in length, may be located upon the front of a
building or canvas awning, provided that the awning is attached to the
building and meets the minimum building setbacks of the City’s zoning
ordinance.  A pedestrian awning or canopy sign may be placed under the
canopy, perpendicular to the pedestrian walkway, provided it is at least
eight feet above the pedestrian walkway.



8.   Rear Entrance Identification Signs.  Rear entrance identification
signs not exceeding six square feet in copy area shall be permitted as
building signs located adjacent to the rear entrance to individual businesses
to clearly identify the location for “deliveries.”  The identification
sign shall not be considered in computing the maximum permitted sign area for
a business.



9.   Political Signs.



   A.   Temporary political signs may be placed prior to an election
and shall be removed within ten days after the election for which they were
applicable.



   B.   In all cases where campaign signs are not removed within the
time limit allowed or after notice to be removed by the City, the City may
cause the signs to be removed and the costs of removal shall be charged to
the person named on the sign.



10.   Non-Commercial Signs.  In any residential district, one sign per
lot, up to 6 square feet is allowed.  This sign may be in addition to any
real estate signs on the property.



11.   No Trespass/No Hunting Signs.  No trespass, no hunting, and similar
restrictive signs, not to exceed two square feet in area, may be placed upon
private property by the owner.



12.   Garage Sale Signs.  Signs advertising garage sales shall be limited
to a maximum of three days for each sale.  Signs shall not exceed three
square feet in area and shall not be placed within public rights-of-way, on
any sidewalk, street, or driveway median.  Signs may be placed within
one-half mile of the garage sale location, but not within 300 feet of a major
arterial intersection.2



2 The provisions of this subsection are effective July 1, 2008.



13.   Bench Signs.  Signs painted upon or otherwise attached to or a part
of a sitting bench at a DART designated bus stop shall be permitted in any
district.



14.   City, County or State Signs.  Signs erected by the City, County, or
State are allowed.



15.   Park and Ride Site Signs.  The Des Moines Area Regional Transit
authority shall be permitted to erect signs to identify park and ride site
locations and bus stops with suitable signs, provided permission for the
signage has been obtained from the property owner.



16.   Address Numbers.  Address numbers less than six square feet in
total copy area are not subject to the maximum sign area provisions of this
chapter.



17.   Public Interest Landmark Signs.  Public interest landmark signs
(such as Uptown entry gateways, park signs) may be erected on property which
is owned or controlled by the City and must be approved by the City Council.



18.   Table of Temporary Sign Size Regulations concerning size
requirements shall be as detailed in Appendix A of this chapter.



195.04    SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT. 



The following signs may be erected or maintained, as shown for each zoning
district or land use, only after obtaining a permit from the City and payment
of permit fees, providing the standards and restrictions in this section are
met.



1.   Building Signs; Location on Building.  Building signs shall be
permanently affixed to buildings according to the following requirements:



   A.   Prior to issuance of a sign permit, the owner of the building
shall designate a signage plan for all sides of single- or multi-occupant
buildings.  The signage plan shall include the maximum height and width of
signs, materials, and colors to be used on signs and the location and
dimensions of the sign area.  All building signs shall be affixed to a
building wall, within the designated sign area, and shall not exceed the
allowable dimensions of this chapter.  All signs proposed by building owners
or tenants shall adhere to the requirements outlined in the signage plan for
the building.



   B.   The sign locations designated shall be located no higher than
the top of the parapet walls or the overhang of the roof.



   C.   In multi-story buildings, no signs shall be permitted above the
ceiling of the first floor, except a sign may be allowed on the second floor
of a multi-story building provided that the second floor is the top floor or
has an exterior entrance; and except as provided in subsection 2 below.



   D.   Primary signs shall be placed on the side of the building where
the main entrance is located.  In buildings with individual entrances,
business identification signs shall be placed within ten feet of the main
entrance to each business.  Signs on the exterior of an enclosed mall shall
be located near entrances closest to the business location.  Sign locations
for each tenant shall be assigned and identified in the signage plan.



   E.   Additional building or business identification signs are
permitted under the following conditions:



      (1)   The owner/agent shall submit a master signage plan
containing the following information:



         a.   A dimensioned site plan and elevations of the
building or buildings to be included in the master sign plan;



         b.   Computation of the maximum total sign area, the
maximum area for individual signs, the height of the signs, and the number of
free-standing signs allowed in the plan under this chapter; and



         c.   An accurate indication on the site plan of the
proposed location of each present and future sign of any type.



      (2)   The maximum number of signs affixed to a building by
each business within the building shall be controlled through the master sign
plan.



      (3)   Additional lighted signs are allowed on a side of a
building which abuts business or industrially zoned property or a public
street, except where the side of the building faces an adjacent public street
which abuts residentially zoned property.  Signs proposed to be located on
the building face abutting a residentially zoned property must be approved by
the Plan and Zoning Commission as a part of the Sign Plan review.



      (4)   The wall of a building where additional signs are
located shall have wall materials and/or exterior colors similar to the main
entrance wall.



      (5)   In multi-occupant buildings, additional signs shall be
affixed to the building at the location identified in the master signage plan.



   F.   Regulations concerning size requirements shall be as detailed
in the Table of Building Sign Size Regulations shown in Appendix B of this
chapter.



2.   Multi-Story Building Signs.  For multi-story buildings, in all
zoning districts, no signs attached to the building, temporary or permanent,
shall be permitted above the first floor or the second floor if it is the top
floor or has an exterior access; except for the following:



   A.   Buildings of three stories or more, located in a commercial or
industrial district, shall be permitted additional building signs in addition
to any signs otherwise permitted by this chapter.



   B.   The additional building signs shall be a maximum of two signs
with each sign not to exceed two square feet of sign area for each 1,000
square feet of gross floor area of the building.



   C.   The two additional building signs shall not be located upon the
same side of the building.



   D.   The two additional building signs shall be similar in size,
scale, and material.



   E.   The two additional building signs shall not extend above the
highest outside wall or below the fourth floor of the building.



   F.   The two additional building signs shall not extend across more
than 40% of the width of the side of the building upon which it is located or
40% of the height for vertical signs.



   G.   The additional building signs shall only be permitted after
approval by the Ankeny Plan and Zoning Commission.



3.   Freestanding Signs; Pylon or Ground Sign.



   A.   Freestanding signs throughout the City of Ankeny shall be
ground signs with the exception that properties abutting Interstate 35 may be
allowed to erect a modified pylon sign if authorized by the Plan and Zoning
Commission.



   B.   The base or support structure for freestanding signs shall
complement the design of the building to which it is accessory by
incorporating materials such as brick, stone, decorative block, or similar
substantial materials used in the construction of the building.  The base of
ground signs shall be a minimum of two feet in height in all zoning
districts.  The sign area shall include all of the supporting structure. 
The copy area shall not exceed 75% of the sign area.



   C.   The supporting structure shall be constructed with the width
equal to or greater than the sign.  When allowed, modified pylon signs shall
have a width of base not less than 40 percent of the width of the sign
structure supported by the base.



   D.   All signs shall be constructed in such a manner and of such
material that they shall be safe and substantial, conforming to the design
requirements of the adopted building code of the City of Ankeny.



   E.   Regulations concerning size requirements shall be as detailed
in Appendix B of this chapter.



   F.   Regulations concerning setback and height requirements shall be
as detailed in Appendix C of this chapter.



4.   Monument Development Signs.  A monument sign intended to permanently
identify a multiple dwelling or single-family residential development shall
be permitted under the following conditions:



   A.   There shall be an entity established to the satisfaction of the
City such as homeowners association, which shall be clearly responsible for
the perpetual maintenance of the monument sign and its environs with
corresponding powers to raise maintenance capital.



   B.   The monument sign shall not exceed 32 square feet of copy area.



   C.   The monument sign shall be a minimum of 30 feet from any
existing or future residence.



5.   Major Anchor/Center Signs.



   A.   Major Anchor Signage.  One major anchor/center sign may be
permitted to identify tenants or building occupants for a center in excess of
100,000 square feet, subject to paragraph C below.



   B.   Shopping Center Signage.  Two major anchor/center signs may be
permitted for a center in excess of 150,000 square feet, subject to the
provisions of paragraph C below.



   C.   All major anchor/center and shopping center sign structures are
subject to the following criteria:



      (1)   The signs shall be the only freestanding signs permitted
for the business or center.  Signs may be placed on any lot within the
planned unit development or subdivision provided the sign applicant controls
the land by easement or title.



      (2)   The sign structure exterior face shall be encased in the
same style, color, and approved exterior material used on the face of the
principal building.  This material shall be concentrated between the
finished grade and 42 inches above the grade.



      (3)   The sign shall be set back a minimum of 10 feet from the
property line, sidewalk/trail easement or public street right-of-way line. 
Signs may be no closer than 250 feet to the nearest freestanding sign on the
same side of the right-of-way, or closer than 50 feet to a corner
intersection of two right-of-way lines.



      (4)   The maximum height of the sign structure shall be 30
feet above finished grade along Interstate Highway right-of-way and 25 feet
in all other locations.  Architectural design details, similar to the design
of the principal building, may extend 5 feet above the maximum height of the
sign.  Sign copy area shall not exceed 100 square feet per side of the sign,
two sides maximum.



      (5)   All signage shall have individual, internal backlit
letters and symbols.



      (6)   Landscaping plans for the area around the base of the
sign shall be completed and reviewed as part of the sign permit approval
process.



6.   Area Identification Signs.  Area identification signs shall be
located in the following manner:



   A.   An area identification sign shall be located upon the property
of the complex it is identifying.



   B.   Area identification signs shall be located along a public
street frontage.



   C.   Area identification signs shall be located a minimum of 50 feet
apart from any other area identification sign or pylon sign.



   D.   No more than one area identification sign for a particular
complex shall be located along the same street frontage.



7.   Gasoline Pump Island Signs.



   A.   Gasoline pump island canopies shall be entitled to two signs in
addition to those otherwise permitted on the principal structure.



   B.   Canopy signs shall not exceed 10 feet in length or 20 square
feet each and shall not be placed on the same side of the canopy.



   C.   Lettering on the signs shall not exceed two feet in height or
the average height of the letters on the sign attached to the principal
structure, whichever is less.



   D.   Canopy signs shall be placed in a manner that will allow a
six-inch minimum border between the top, bottom, and sides of a canopy
face.  The sign area is determined by measuring the text only.  Stripes or
colors do not contribute to the sign area computation.



8.   Second Ground Signs.  A second ground sign may be allowed when all
of the following conditions are met.



   A.   The lot must be in commercial or industrial zoning
classification.



   B.   The lot must be a through lot with double street frontage, or a
corner lot with street frontage on three sides.



   C.   The second ground sign must be located on the side of the lot
abutting the minor or interior roadway.



   D.   The ground sign must meet the size, height, and setback
requirements for the primary ground sign permitted on the site.



   E.   The ground sign shall be in addition to all other permitted
ground signs.



9.   Other Signs.  The following additional signs are permitted under
this section, subject to the restrictions thereof, and are intended to serve
the business needs of advertising an initial grand opening for a business and
other special promotions, sales or events.  Portable signs, banners,
streamers, and/or balloon signs are permitted, upon the issuance of a permit
from the City, in commercial, industrial, and institutional zoning districts
for the purposes of promoting a grand opening, special sales, or events.



   A.   One non-lighted portable sign or balloon sign not exceeding 32
square feet per plane (side) and additional banners and/or streamers located
upon the site of the grand opening, promotions, sales, or events shall be
allowed at any time of the year for any period of time for any given event so
long as the aggregate time that any and all of these “other signs” are
present at the business does not exceed 30 days in any one calendar year. 
Said “other signs” shall not be located within 5 feet of any property
line.  A permit issued by the City will include a fee established by
resolution of the City Council which shall be based upon each occurrence of
the signage described herein.



   B.   A small portable 2 x 3-foot unlighted freestanding sign may be
placed adjacent to the building at or near the entrance to the business,
intending to only serve to advertise to pedestrian traffic at the building. 
This sign shall not occupy parking spaces or block sidewalks or walkways. 
This sign would be calculated as a part of the allowable building signage and
once permitted would be allowed to be used for an unlimited time period
within the calendar year.  The City shall issue a 12-month permit and
reserves the right to refuse the permit if there is abuse of this section or
complaints regarding this signage are received.



10.   Menu Boards.  Menu boards are permitted under the following
conditions:



   A.   A maximum of two menu boards per drive-through lane shall be
permitted on a parcel of land with a restaurant providing drive-up window
service.



   B.   The menu board shall be a maximum of 30 square feet in area and
may be in addition to any other signs permitted by this chapter.



   C.   The menu board shall be single-sided and oriented in such a
manner so that the sign provides information to the patrons using the
drive-through facility only, and does not provide supplemental advertising to
pass-by traffic.



   D.   The menu board signage shall be completely enclosed within one
sign area.



   E.   Order confirmation signage no greater than one square foot and
incorporated into the drive-through speaker pedestal shall not be calculated
as part of the menu board signage area.  Order confirmation signage greater
than one square foot shall be incorporated into menu board and calculated as
part of said board’s sign area.



11.   Video Signs.  Video signs are permitted under the following
conditions:



   A.   Video signs shall only be allowed as a component of a modified
pylon sign and shall not exceed 50 percent of the allowable copy area.



   B.   Video signs shall be required to automatically adjust in
intensity related to ambient light levels.



   C.   The City shall issue a 12-month permit after review and
approval of the Plan and Zoning Commission and reserves the right to refuse
the extension of the permit in the case of abuse of the applicable
requirements herein.



195.05    PROHIBITED SIGNS.



1.   Painting Directly on Exterior Walls.  Signs shall not be painted
directly on any exterior building surface but shall be on a separate frame. 
Signs, letters, and symbols may be attached directly to a wall by adhesive or
mechanical means.



2.   Paper Signs.  There shall be no paper cardboard or similar signs,
notices, or flyers pasted, tacked, or otherwise affixed to the exterior wall
or window of any building.



3.   Revolving Beacons, Sequential Flashers, Flashing Signs and all
Similar Devices.  There shall be no use of revolving beacons, sequential
flashers, or similar devices.



4.   Portable or Movable Signs.  There shall be no use of a sign so
designed as to be movable from one location to another, such as (but not
limited to) changeable message signs, reader boards, trailer, panel truck or
semi-truck trailer, or other device whose function is to be stationary and
serve as a sign except as described in Section 195.04(9) – Other Signs.



5.   Overhanging Signs.  No permanent or temporary signs shall be upon or
overhang the public right-of-way or the boundary of adjacent property except
traffic signs erected by the City, County, or State and except for signs in
special areas such as Uptown or Prairie Trail Town Center as authorized by
the Plan and Zoning Commission and City Council.



6.   Open House, For Sale, Garage Sale Signs.  Open house, for sale and
garage sale signs, and the like may not be placed within street
rights-of-way, easements, roadway surface, sidewalks, medians, and decorative
surfaces, or within 300 feet of major arterial street intersections.  Any
sign so placed is a nuisance and traffic hazard and is hereby determined to
be in violation of the sign regulations.



7.   Advertising or Billboard Signs Prohibited.  No sign which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment shall be placed
or located within any street rights-of-way.  No sign shall be on property
other than the premises on which the business, commodity, service, or
entertainment is located.



195.06    SIGNAGE PLAN. 



Prior to issuance of a sign permit for other than the replacement of sign
faces within an existing cabinet, the owner of the site and/or building shall
designate a signage plan for all signs proposed to occur on the site and
building.  The signage plan shall include the maximum height and width of
signs, materials, and colors to be used on signs and the location and
dimensions of the sign area on the building and yard sign locations.  All
building signs shall be affixed to a building wall, within the designated
sign area, and shall not exceed the allowable dimensions of this chapter. 
All freestanding signs shall be permanently installed in designated locations
and shall not exceed the allowable dimensions of this chapter.  All signs
proposed by building owners or tenants shall adhere to the requirements
outlined in the signage plan for the building.



1.   The signage plan shall contain all of the information required for a
master signage plan and shall also specify standards for consistency among
all signs affected by the plan with regard to color scheme, lettering or
graphic style, lighting, location of each sign on the buildings, materials,
and sign proportions.



2.   Other provisions of a plan may contain other restrictions as the
owners of the development or buildings may reasonably determine.



3.   The plan shall be signed by all owners or their authorized agents as
required by the City.



4.   A signage plan shall be included with any building permit
authorization, site plan review, nonresidential planned unit development,
exterior remodel or other official plan required for the proposed development
and shall be reviewed simultaneously with other plans.



5.   A signage plan may be amended by filing a new plan that conforms to
all of the requirements of the City’s Code of Ordinances in effect at that
time.



6.   If a new or amended signage plan is filed for a property on which
existing signs are located, it shall include a schedule for bringing into
compliance, within five years, all signs not conforming to the proposed
amended plan or requirements of this chapter in effect on the date of
submission.



7.   After approval of a signage plan, no sign shall be erected, placed,
painted, or maintained, except in conformance with the plan, and the plan may
be enforced in the same way as any provision of this chapter.  In case of
any conflict between the provisions of a plan and this chapter, this chapter
shall control.



195.07    PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.



1.   Lighting Regulations.



   A.   All illuminated signs shall have an indirect or diffused light
source and be designed so as not to direct rays of light onto public streets
or adjacent property, thereby creating a nuisance or safety hazard.



   B.   Electronic message boards used as changeable copy signs or
reader boards shall be required to adjust in intensity related to ambient
light levels.



   C.   There shall be no flashing signs or use of flashing messages or
pictures of any type including electronic message signs and video signs
permitted in any district.  For the purpose of this section, electronic
message signs with smooth transitions such as fading or slow scrolling would
not be considered flashing.  For the purpose of this section video signs
which display consistent images without dramatic changes in either image or
intensity intended specifically to draw attention to the sign would not be
considered flashing.



2.   Changeable Copy and/or Reader Boards.  A maximum of one-half of the
total copy area allowed for a freestanding sign may be used for changeable
copy or reader board.



3.   Placement of Signs on Driveway Island or Entrance.  No permanent or
temporary sign shall be located upon a driveway median for a distance of a
minimum of ten feet from a public street right-of-way.



4.   Change of Sign Message.  Upon any change or replacement of more than
a sign face within an existing cabinet, the sign will constitute a new sign,
requiring a new initial fee, and issuance of a new permit.  If the sign does
not exceed the size requirement as provided in this chapter and the change is
in content only, an application and drawings must be submitted, but the fee
will not be required.



5.   Nonconforming Signs; Continuation of Previously Permitted Signs. 
Existing signs, other than temporary signs, which were permitted under sign
regulations in effect prior to enactment of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived may be kept as and where they were then located, even
though they may not conform to these regulations.  Upon replacement of any
elements of the sign other than the sign faces within an existing cabinet,
there must be compliance with these regulations, unless the replacement is
for the purpose of repair and is 100% identical to the original.



   A.   New off premises advertising signs (billboards) are not
permitted. Existing non-conforming billboards are allowed to be converted to
digital advertising signs subject to the following criteria:



      (1)     For every one existing sign face converted from
non-electronic to a digital advertising sign, two other existing
non-electronic billboard sign faces must be removed.  Sign faces shall be
removed so that in no instance shall a sign face be left on a structure
without another sign face backing up to it and consequently exposing the back
side of the sign structure.



      (2)     The digital advertising sign may not exceed the
height or size (sign area) of the existing sign being replaced.



      (3)     The digital advertising sign shall be supported by a
monopole structure, unless otherwise approved by City staff or the Plan and
Zoning Commission.



      (4)     The maximum brightness of the digital advertising
sign shall not exceed a luminance of 5,000 NITS during daylight hours.  The
maximum brightness of the sign shall not exceed a luminance of 500 NITS
during the period from dusk to dawn.



      (5)     The digital advertising sign shall have an automatic
dimmer control or ambient light monitors to produce an illumination change
from a higher illumination level to a lower one for the period of time from
dusk to dawn.



      (6)     Any image or message displayed on the digital
advertising sign must have a minimum duration time of eight seconds.



      (7)     The transition from one image to another shall appear
instantaneous.  The use of special effects or specialized transitions is
prohibited.



      (8)     Each image must be static and not contain any type of
motion, animation, scrolling of text, or sequential displays.



      (9)     Digital advertising signs shall not be within 1000’
of each other when facing the same way.



      (10)     All approved digital advertising signs shall be made
available for usage for Amber Alerts and other Emergency Community
Notifications as deemed necessary by appropriate Emergency and Law
Enforcement Agencies and community information approved by the City Council
and City staff.



      (11)     All digital advertising signs will be permitted only
after obtaining all applicable permits from the City and payment of all
permit fees, provided the standards and restrictions in this section, as well
as all applicable requirements of all other adopted ordinances and
regulations of the City, are met.



(Subsection 5 -Ord. 1736 – Oct. 12 Supp.)



6.   Illegal Signs.  When an illegal sign exists upon a parcel of land or
business property, the City may refuse to issue a permit for any other sign
on that property until the illegal sign is removed.



7.   Exposed Structural Components.  Exposed backs of all signs and the
sign structure must be painted a neutral color and otherwise be maintained so
as not to have an adverse effect upon the adjacent property.



8.   Signs Which Interfere with Traffic Signs, Signals or Devices.  No
sign shall be installed or allowed to exist, which, by reason of position,
shape, color, or wording, would interfere with the proper functioning of any
official traffic sign, signal, or device.



9.   Maintenance; Refuse and Removal.



   A.   All signs shall be maintained in good condition and the areas
around them kept free from debris, bushes, and high weeds and from anything
else which would be a nuisance.



   B.   All business signs shall be removed from the building and
property by the owner of the property within ten days after business or use
is terminated except for framework that is expected to be used for a future
business sign.



   C.   All signs shall contain current information.  Outdated signs
or signs with outdated information shall be removed by the owner.



   D.   When any sign is removed, the enforcing officer shall be
notified and the entire surrounding area shall be cleared of all debris and
unsightly projections and protrusions.



   E.   Signs not in compliance with this chapter.



      (1)   When a sign placed on private property is not in
compliance with this chapter and has not been removed by the owner or
operator of a business, the City shall have the right to remove the sign,
after ten days’ written notice, and charge the cost of removal to the owner
or operator.  Where a safety hazard exists, the City may remove the sign
without notice.



      (2)   When a sign placed on public property is not in
compliance with this chapter, the City shall have the right to remove the
sign immediately and store the sign for not less than three days, whereupon
the City may dispose of the sign in a manner similar to other abandoned
property.



10.   Table of Setback and Height Requirements.  The minimum setbacks and
maximum heights shall be required for all signs, as detailed in Appendix C to
this chapter.



195.08    SIGN ADMINISTRATION.



1.   Compliance with Chapter.  No sign shall be erected, installed,
constructed, or painted in the City, except in compliance with this chapter
and unless it shall conform to and meet the requirements of this chapter.



2.   Enforcing Officer.  The Department Director shall be the enforcing
officer of this chapter.



3.   Permit Applications.  The application for a sign permit shall be
made upon forms provided by the City and shall state or have attached thereto
the following information:



   A.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant and owner of
the sign and, in the case of multi-tenant buildings, the name, address, and
telephone number of owner of the building and/or site;



   B.   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which
the sign is to be attached or erected;



   C.   Position of the sign or other advertising structures in
relation to nearby buildings or structures;



   D.   A scaled drawing or photograph of the plans and specifications
and method of construction or attachment to the building or in the ground;



   E.   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structure is
designed for dead load and wind velocity in the amount required by the
City’s Building Code and if requested by the City Building Official;



   F.   Name of person erecting the structure; and



   G.   Other information as the City may require.



4.   Permit Fees.  Permit fees for signs shall be as established by City
Council Resolution.



5.   Variances Authorized.  To provide reasonable flexibility in the sign
regulations, the Board of Adjustment may approve a variance for a sign
otherwise not permitted by these regulations where an exception would not be
inconsistent with the intent of the sign regulations.



6.   Variances; Conditions to Granting.  No variance shall be granted
unless the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall find that either of the
conditions outlined in paragraph A and B exists:



   A.   All of the following requirements must be met:



      (1)   Special conditions exist which are peculiar to the land,
structure, and building involved and which are not applicable to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district;



      (2)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result
from the actions of the applicant;



      (3)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of these
regulations would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same district and the terms of these sign regulations;



      (4)   That granting the variance requested would not confer on
the applicant any special privilege for a use not common to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district; and



      (5)   The proposed use of the property shall have an
appearance that will not have an adverse effect upon adjacent properties and
there will be no deterrence to development of vacant land.



   B.   Any proposed signage beyond the maximum square footage
permitted would have the primary function of providing a public service.



7.   Variances; Requests, Fees.  All requests for variances shall be made
in writing to the City on the form provided by the City and the request shall
include the fee specified in the City Council Resolution.  All information
required when applying for a sign permit, as outlined in this chapter, shall
be required before the request for a variance is considered by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.




(Chapter 195 amended by Ord. 1651 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




APPENDIX A:  TEMPORARY SIGN SIZES



The following are size regulations for all temporary signs.



 



Sign Description
 
Pylon Sign
 
Ground Sign
 
Building Sign
 
Maximum Area
(square feet)


Construction
 
---
 
*
 
---
 
*


Real Estate
 
---
 
1
 
1**
 
6 in residential district; 32 in other districts


Development
 
---
 
1
 
---
 
64 in any district


Noncommercial
 
---
 
1
 
---
 
6


Other
 
---
 
***
 
***
 
***


Promotional
 
---
 
Note
 
---
 
32


*   See Section 195.03(1)(C)

**   Multi-tenant spaces may have 1 building sign per vacant space.

***   See Section 195.04(9)

Note:  as determined by the City Council




 



APPENDIX B:  SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS



The following signs may be erected or maintained, as shown for each zoning
district or land use, only after obtaining a permit from the City and payment
of permit fees, providing standards of this chapter are met.



 




Zoning District/Land Use

 

Pylon Sign*

 

Ground Sign

 

Building Sign

 

Sign Area
Ground
(square feet)

 

Sign Area
Building
(square feet)



Agricultural
 

---

 

1

 

1

 

40

 
40


Residential SF
 

---

 

---

 

---

 

---

 
---


Residential MF
 

---

 

1

 

---

 

40

 
---


Institutional
 

---

 

1

 

1

 

40

 
40 each building


Neighborhood Commercial
 

---

 

1

 

1

 

60

 
1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. with a maximum size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.


Uptown
 

---

 

0

 

1

 


 
1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. with a maximum size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.


General Business
 


 


 


 


 
 


    Single occupant
 

*

 

1

 

1

 

80

 
- 1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back up to 40 ft. with a maximum
size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.
- 1.5 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back 41 to 100 ft.
- 2 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back greater than 100 ft. or abutting
I-35 right-of-way.


    Multi-occupant
 

*

 

1

 

1/business

 

100

 
- 1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back up to 40 ft. with a maximum
size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.
- 1.5 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back 41 to 100 ft.
- 2 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back greater than 100 ft. or abutting
I-35 right-of-way.


Regional/Shopping Center
 


 


 


 


 
 


    Multi-occupant
    Under 50,000 sq. ft.
 

*

 

1

 

1/business

 

120

 
- 1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back up to 40 ft. with a maximum
size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.
- 1.5 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back 41 to 100 ft.
- 2 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back greater than 100 ft. or abutting
I-35 right-of-way.


    Multi-occupant
    Over 50,000 sq. ft.
 

*

 

2

 

1/business

 

150

 
- 1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back up to 40 ft. with a maximum
size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.
- 1.5 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back 41 to 100 ft.
- 2 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back greater than 100 ft. or abutting
I-35 right-of-way.


Light Industrial
 

---

 

1

 

1

 

100

 
- 1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back up to 40 ft. with a maximum
size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.
- 1.5 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back 41 to 100 ft.
- 2 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back greater than 100 ft. or abutting
I-35 right-of-way.


Heavy Industrial
 

---

 

1

 

1

 

100

 
- 1.0 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back up to 40 ft. with a maximum
size not to exceed 100 sq. ft.
- 1.5 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back 41 to 100 ft.
- 2 sq. ft./lin. ft. for buildings set back greater than 100 ft. or abutting
I-35 right-of-way.


Planned Development
 
The ordinance establishing each planned development district shall be used to
determine the most applicable zoning district designated for each lot and
signs shall be permitted by the most applicable zoning district, as
determined by the Department Director.


* Pylon signs will only be considered on sites with interstate frontage.




 




(Ord. 1871 - Jan. 16 Supp.)





APPENDIX C:  SETBACK AND HEIGHT




The following minimum setbacks and maximum heights shall be required for all
signs.  All signs shall be placed in a manner to avoid conflicts with
visibility triangles at streets, sidewalks, trails and driveways.



 




Type of Sign

 

Minimum Setback; Public Street Right-of-Way Line (feet)

 

Minimum Setback;
Other Yards
(feet)

 

Maximum Height
(feet)



Advertising
 

Minimum required building setback

 

Minimum required building setback

 

25 feet



Business Building
 

Minimum required building setback

 

Minimum required building setback

 

Highest outside wall



Construction
 

5 feet

 

5 feet, with a minimum of 50 feet from a residence

 

8 feet



Development; Residential, Commercial and Industrial
 

5 feet

 

5 feet, with a minimum of 50 feet from a residence

 

10 feet



Garage Sale, Political and Promotional
 

5 feet

 

5 feet

 

6 feet



Ground Sign
 

5 feet

 

5 feet

 

15 feet



Major Anchor/
Shopping Center
 

10 feet

 

5 feet

 

30 feet/25 feet**



Menu Boards
 

20 feet

 

5 feet

 

8 feet



Monument Development Sign
 

5 feet

 

5 feet

 

8 feet



Pylon Sign*
 

5 feet

 

5 feet

 

30 feet



Real Estate
 

5 feet

 

5 feet

 

8 feet



Noncommercial
 

5 feet

 

5 feet

 

8 feet



NOTES TO TABLE:
*   A pylon sign must be a minimum of 100 feet from any other pylon
sign.  Any pylon or ground sign must be 300 feet away from any major
anchor/shopping center sign.
**   A major anchor/shopping center sign may be 30 feet tall along the
Interstate 35 right-of-way.




 



CHAPTER 196
ZONING ORDINANCE
NONCONFORMING USES, EXCEPTIONS
AND
AMENDMENTS



 

196.01  Nonconforming Uses, Structures and Signs
 
196.03  Exceptions and Modifications


196.02  Special Use Permits
 
196.04  Amendments



 



196.01    NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND SIGNS. 



Within the various districts established by this Zoning Ordinance, or
amendments that may later be adopted, there exist structures and uses of land
and structures which were lawful prior to the adoption of this Zoning
Ordinance but which would now be prohibited, regulated or restricted under
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.  It is the intent of this Zoning
Ordinance to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed,
but not to encourage their survival.  Such uses are declared to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved.  It is further
the intent of this Zoning Ordinance that such nonconformities shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded, or extended.



1.   Land Restrictions in Residence Districts.  The lawful use of land,
upon which no building or structure is erected or constructed, which becomes
nonconforming under the terms of this Zoning Ordinance, as adopted or
amended, may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:



   A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance.



   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other portion of the lot or parcel which was not occupied by such use at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance.



   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for
a period of more than six months, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the district in which such land is located.



2.   Structure or Structure and Land Restrictions in Residence
Districts.  If a lawful use of a structure, or of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
Zoning Ordinance, that would not be allowed in the district under the terms
of this Zoning Ordinance, the use may be continued for so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:



   A.   No existing structure devoted entirely or in part to a use not
permitted by this Zoning Ordinance in the district in which it is located,
except when required by law, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed,
moved, or structurally altered, unless the use is changed to a use permitted
in the district in which such structure is located.



   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time
of adoption or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance.  No such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such building.



   C.   If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
structure may be changed to another nonconforming use of a similar nature
within the same or a more restricted classification.  Whenever a
nonconforming use has been changed to a more restricted use or to a
conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restrictive use.



   D.   In the event that a nonconforming use of a structure, or
structure and land in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a period
of one year, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the uses
permitted in the district in which it is located.  Where nonconforming use
status applies to a structure and land in combination, removal, or
destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the
land.



   E.   Any structure devoted to a use made nonconforming by this
Zoning Ordinance that is destroyed by any means to an extent of sixty percent
or more of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, exclusive of the
foundations, shall not be reconstructed and used as before such
destruction.  If the structure is less than sixty percent destroyed above
the foundations, it may be reconstructed and used as before, provided that it
is done within six months of such destruction, and is built of like or
similar materials.



3.   Structure Restrictions in Residence District.  Where a structure
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance
that could not be built under the terms of this Zoning Ordinance by reason of
restriction on area lot coverage, height, yards or other characteristics of
the structure or its location or the lot, such structure may be continued so
long as it remains lawful, subject to the following provisions:



   A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity.



   B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
sixty percent or more of its replacement cost at time of destruction,
exclusive of the foundations, it shall not be reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.  If the structure
is less than sixty percent destroyed above the foundation, it may be
reconstructed as before; provided, that it can be done within six months of
such destruction, and that it is built of like or similar materials.



4.   Land Restrictions in Non-Residence Districts.  The regulations
governing nonconforming uses of land in any residence district, as described
in subsection 1 of this section shall also apply to any district which is not
a residence district.



5.   Use of Structures in Non-Residence Districts.  The regulations
governing nonconforming uses of structures in any residence district, as
described in subsection 2 of this section shall also apply to any district
which is not a residence district with the following exception:  Any
structure in any district other than a residence district devoted to a use
made nonconforming by this Zoning Ordinance may be structurally altered or
enlarged in conformity with the lot area, lot coverage, frontage, yard,
height and parking requirements of the district in which located, provided
that such construction shall be limited to buildings on land owned of record
by the owner of the land devoted to the nonconforming use prior to the
effective date of the Zoning Ordinance.  Such structural alteration or
enlargement shall not authorize the substitution of a nonconforming use that
is less restrictive than the one to which the structure was devoted at the
time of passage of this Zoning Ordinance.



6.   Structures in Non-Residence Districts.  The regulations governing
nonconforming structures in any residence district, as described in
subsection 3 of this section shall also apply to any district which is not a
residence district.



7.   Non-Applicability.  Nothing in this Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed
to prevent the restoring to a safe condition of any building, or part
thereof, declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the
public safety, upon order of such official.



8.   Continuance of Unauthorized Uses Prohibited.  Any use of land, use
of structure, or structures, in existence at the time of adoption of the
Zoning Ordinance and which was not an authorized nonconformity under previous
zoning ordinances, shall not be authorized to continue its nonconformity
status pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance or amendments thereto.



196.02  SPECIAL USE PERMITS.



1.   Zoning Board of Adjustment Authorization.  The Zoning Board of
Adjustment may, by Special Use Permit after public hearing, authorize the
location of any of the following buildings or uses in any district from which
they are prohibited by this Zoning Ordinance:



   A.   Any public building erected by the township, county, state or
federal government;



   B.   Airport and landing field;



   C.   Community building or recreation field;



   D.   Hospitals and nonprofit fraternal institutions, provided that
they are used solely for fraternal purposes; and institutions of an
educational, religious, philanthropic or eleemosynary character;



   E.   Preschools;



   F.   Public cemetery;



   G.   Private golf courses, country clubs and tennis or swimming
clubs;



   H.   Aboveground buildings or structures used solely for the purpose
of the transmission or relay of electric or telephone utility service.



   I.   Premises with a Class B beer permit or liquor control license
not contained within a completely enclosed and covered structure and located
less than five hundred feet from a residential zoning district; provided the
following standards are met: 



      (1)   The applicant meets all other requirements listed in
Chapter 130 of this Code of Ordinances.



      (2)   The Special Use Permit, if granted, shall expire one
year after the grant thereof, subject to renewal.  The applicant shall file
a letter of request for renewal at least 60 days prior to the expiration date
of the granted permit.  The applicant shall set forth that said permittee
has and will continue to comply with all the requirements of this Zoning
Ordinance and with the conditions attached to the issuance of the original
permit or subsequent modifications or such other information as may be
required by said Board.  At any time within the 60 days prior to said
anniversary date and after notice to the permittee, the Board may hold a
hearing on whether or not such permit shall be amended, modified or revoked
for any reasons which would cause the Board to deny or attach conditions to
the grant of such permit the same as if the application were first being
heard.  In the event such hearing is not held and the statement herein is
filed as required, such shall be automatically renewed for an additional
period of one year on the same conditions.  Nothing contained in this
section shall prevent the Board, after notice and hearing, from at any time
revoking a permit because of violations of its terms.  Notice hereunder
shall be in writing and mailed by certified mail to the permittee at the
address of the premises concerned in the permit, such mailing to be at least
ten days prior to the hearing.



      (3)   Any permittee issued a Special Use Permit in accordance
with 196.02(I) must comply with, and enforcement will be in accordance with,
Municipal Code Chapter 44, Noise Control.  When a Noise Permit is issued in
accordance with Chapter 44, hours of operation for the event shall be
consistent with the hours approved by the Special Use Permit and those hours
shall be specifically set out in the Noise Permit. 




(Ord. 1859 - Oct. 15 Supp.)




      (4)   The Board may exact any other regulations and
assurances, covenants, and warranties as may be necessary to protect the
rights of the neighboring residents, including but not limited to the
following:  (a) hours of operation; (b) lighting; and (c) screening.




      (5)   Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this
Code, a Special Event Permit does not need to be obtained from the Board of
Adjustment for a one-time event that is otherwise required to obtain a
Special Event Permit in accordance with Chapter 11 of this Municipal Code.





(Ord. 1859 - Oct. 15 Supp.)




(Ord. 1659 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



   J.   Temporary Concrete Batch Plants or Temporary Asphalt Batch
Plants or Concrete or Asphalt Recycling Plants under the following conditions:



      (1)   Permitted in any district wherein a Special Use Permit
has been granted.



      (2)   Such facility shall be erected in conjunction with a
project or projects, either private or public, within the City.



      (3)   Permitted until termination of such project or projects.



      (4)   The contractor shall submit a routing of trucks to and
from the proposed plant to the City Engineer as a condition prior to approval.



      (5)   The contractor shall be required to restore the area to
its original productive state.



      (6)   Such facility shall only be allowed access via arterial
or collector roads and highways.  Access via local residential and/or
collector roads serving residential areas shall be prohibited.



      (7)   Entire site must be 1,000 feet from a residential
dwelling.



   K.   Small Wind Energy Conversion Systems.



      (1)   Intent.  The intent of this section is to balance the
need for clean, renewable energy resources and the necessity to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare of the community.  The City finds these
regulations are necessary to ensure that Small Wind Energy Conversion Systems
are appropriately designed, sited, and installed.



      (2)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the
following definitions shall apply:



         (a)   “Height, total system” means the height above
grade of the system, including the generating unit and the highest vertical
extension of any blades or rotors.



         (b)   “Lot” (or Parcel) means any legally
established lot or parcel which contains or could contain a permitted or
permitted conditional principal use as provided by Section 190.03(54) of this
Code.



         (c)   “Off grid” means an electrical system that is
not connected to utility distribution and transmission facilities or to any
building or structure that is connected.



         (d)   “Shadow flicker” means changing light
intensity caused by sunlight through the moving blades of a wind energy
conversion system.



         (e)   “Small Wind Energy Conversion System” (SWECS)
means a wind energy conversion system which has a nameplate rated capacity of
up to fifteen (15) kilowatts for residential uses and districts and up to one
hundred (100) kilowatts for commercial and industrial districts and which is
incidental and subordinate to a principal use on the same parcel.  A system
is considered a SWECS only if it supplies electrical power solely for use by
the owner on the site, except that when a parcel on which the system is
installed also receives electrical power supplied by a utility company,
excess electrical power generated and not presently needed by the owner for
on-site use may be used by the utility company in accordance with Section
199, Chapter 15.11(5) of the Iowa Administrative Code, as amended from time
to time.



         (f)   “Small Wind Energy Conversion System, free
standing” means a SWECS which is elevated by means of a monopole tower only
and is not located on another supporting structure except that the tower
shall have an appropriately constructed concrete base. Guyed, lattice, or
other non-monopole style towers shall not meet this definition.



         (g)   “Small Wind Energy Conversion System, horizontal
axis” means a small wind energy conversion system that has blades which
rotate through a horizontal plane.



         (h)   “Small Wind Energy Conversion System, building
mounted” means a SWECS which is securely fastened to any portion of a
principal building in order to achieve desired elevation, whether attached
directly to the principal building or attached to a tower structure which is
in turn fastened to the principal building.



         (i)   “Small Wind Energy Conversion System, vertical
axis” means a small wind energy conversion system that has blades which
rotate through a vertical plane.



         (j)   “Tower” means the vertical component of a wind
energy conversion system that elevates the wind turbine generator and
attached blades above the ground.  No other apparatus or
mechanical/electronic equipment, such as cellular antennas, microwave dishes,
or satellite dishes shall be attached to a SWECS tower.



         (k)   “Wind Energy Conversion System” (WECS) means
an aggregation of parts including the foundation, base, tower, generator,
rotor, blades, supports, guy wires and accessory equipment such as utility
interconnect and battery banks, etc., in such configuration as necessary to
convert the power of wind into mechanical or electrical energy, e.g., wind
charger, windmill or wind turbine.



         (l)   “Wind turbine generator” means the component
of a wind energy conversion system that transforms mechanical energy from the
wind into electrical energy.



      (3)   General Regulations.



         (a)   Special Use: A Small Wind Energy Conversion System
(SWECS) shall be allowed only as a Special Use as defined in Section 196.02
of this Municipal Code, and shall be accessory to a permitted principal
use.  A site plan must also be approved for a SWECS as defined in Section
192.02, prior to construction.  A WECS that does not meet the definition of
a SWECS is prohibited within the City of Ankeny.



         (b)   Zoning: SWECS may be allowed in all zoning
districts subject to the provisions contained herein and elsewhere within
this Municipal Code.



         (c)   Permit Required:  It is unlawful to construct,
erect, install, alter or locate any SWECS within the City of Ankeny, unless a
Special Use permit has been obtained from the Zoning Board of Adjustment. 
The permitted Special Use Permit may be revoked by resolution of the Zoning
Board of Adjustment any time the approved system does not comply with the
rules set forth in this chapter and the conditions imposed by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.  The owner/operator of the SWECS must also obtain any
other permits required by other federal, state and local agencies/departments
prior to constructing the system.



         (d)   Number of Systems Per Zoning Lot:



            Residential Use:  No more than one freestanding
SWECS may be placed on any parcel or lot for residential use.  Building
mounted SWECS shall be prohibited on any parcel or lot containing a one- or
two-family use.



            Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Use:  No
more than one freestanding SWECS may be placed any parcel or lot with a
commercial, industrial, or institutional use that is taller than the tallest
existing principal building located on said parcel or lot.  Additional
freestanding SWECS which conform to setback requirements contained herein and
which are no taller than the tallest existing principal building located on
said parcel or lot may be allowed.  Additional building mounted SWECS may be
allowed within the parameters herein below.



            Mixed Use:  Any building containing both residential
and commercial uses or described as a “Mixed Use” building, shall be
considered to be a commercial use for the purposes of this section.



         (e)   Tower:  Only monopole towers shall be permitted
for freestanding SWECS.  Lattice, guyed or towers of any other type shall
not be considered to be in compliance with this Section. SWECS towers shall
be utilized for the sole purpose of supporting wind energy conversion
systems, not other uses shall be permitted on SWECS towers.



         (f)   Color:  Freestanding SWECS shall be a neutral
color such as white, sky blue or light gray.  Building mounted SWECS shall
match the color of the building on which it is mounted.  Other colors may be
allowed at the discretion of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.  The surface
shall be non-reflective.



         (g)   Lighting:  No lights shall be installed on the
tower, unless required to meet FAA regulations.



         (h)   Signage:  No signage or advertising of any kind
shall be permitted on the tower or any associated structures.



         (i)   Climbing Apparatus:  The tower must be designed
to prevent climbing within the first ten feet.



         (j)   Maintenance:  Facilities shall be well maintained
in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications and shall remain in an
operational condition that poses no potential safety hazard nor is in
violation of any provisions contained within this section or elsewhere within
this Municipal Code.



         (k)   Displacement of Parking Prohibited:  The location
of the SWECS shall not result in the net loss of required parking as
specified elsewhere in this Municipal Code.



         (l)   Utility Notification:  The City shall notify the
utility of receipt of an application to install an interconnected
customer-owned generator.  Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this
notification requirement.



         (m)   Interconnection:  If connected to the grid, the
SWECS shall meet the requirements for interconnection and operation as set
forth by the utility and the Iowa Utilities Board.  No permit of any kind
shall be issued until the City of Ankeny has been provided with a copy of an
executed interconnection agreement.  Off-grid systems shall be exempt from
this requirement.



         (n)   Restriction on Use of Electricity Generated:  A
SWECS shall be used exclusively to supply electrical power to the owner for
on-site consumption, except that excess electrical power generated by the
SWECS and not presently needed for use by the owner may be used by the
utility company in accordance with Section 199, Chapter 15.11(5) of the Iowa
Administrative Code, as may be subsequently amended.



         (o)   Noise: A SWECS shall be designed, installed, and
operated so that the noise generated does not exceed the maximum noise levels
established in Chapter 44 – Noise Control, of this Municipal Code.



         (p)   Shadow Flicker:  No SWECS shall be installed and
operated so to cause a shadow flicker to fall on or in any existing
residential structure.



         (q)   Safety Controls:  Each SWECS shall be equipped
with both an automatic and manual braking, governing, or feathering system to
prevent uncontrolled rotation, over-speeding, and excessive pressure on the
tower structure, rotor blades, or turbine components.  Said automatic
braking system shall also be capable of stopping turbine rotation in the
event of a power outage so as to prevent back feeding of the grid.



         (r)   Shut Off:  A clearly marked and easily accessible
shut off for the wind turbine will be required as determined by the Building
Official of the City of Ankeny.



         (s)   Electromagnetic Interference:  All SWECS shall be
designed and constructed so as not to cause radio and television
interference.  If it is determined that the SWECS is causing electromagnetic
interference, the owner/operator shall take the necessary corrective action
to eliminate this interference including relocation or removal of the
facilities, subject to the approval of the City of Ankeny.  A permit
granting a SWECS may be revoked if electromagnetic interference from the
SWECS becomes evident.



         (t)   Wind Access Easements:  The enactment of this
section does not constitute the granting of an easement by the City of
Ankeny.  The SWECS owner/operator shall have the sole responsibility to
acquire any covenants, easements, or similar documentation to assure and/or
protect access to sufficient wind as may or may not be necessary to operate
the SWECS.



         (u)   Insurance:  The owner/operator of a SWECS must
demonstrate and maintain liability insurance of not less than $1,000,000
coverage.



         (v)   Engineer Certification:  Applications for any
freestanding or building mounted SWECS shall be accompanied by standard
drawings of the wind turbine support structure, including the tower, base,
and footings, or existing structure if applicable.  An engineering analysis
of all components of the SWECS showing compliance with the applicable
regulations and certified by an Iowa licensed professional engineer shall
also be submitted.



         (w)   Installation:  Installation must be done
according to manufacturer’s recommendations.  All wiring and electrical
work must be completed according to the applicable building and electric
codes.  All electrical components must meet code recognized test standards.



         (x)   Removal:  If the SWECS remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of six (6) months, the system shall be
deemed to be abandoned.  The SWECS owner/operator shall remove the abandoned
system at their expense.  Removal of the system includes the entire
structure, transmission equipment and fencing from the property excluding
foundations.  Non-function or lack of operation may be proven by reports
from the interconnected utility.  For off-grid systems the City of Ankeny
shall have the right to enter the property at its sole discretion to
determine if the off-grid system is generating power.  Such generation may
be proven by use of an amp meter.  The SWECS owner/operator and successors
shall make available to the City of Ankeny all reports to and from the
purchaser of energy from the SWECS if requested.  If removal of towers and
appurtenant facilities is required, the City of Ankeny shall notify the SWECS
owner/operator.  Removal shall be completed within six (6) months of written
notice to remove being provided to the owner/operator by the City of Ankeny.



         (y)   Right of Entrance:  As a condition of approval of
a Special Use Permit an applicant seeking to install SWECS shall be required
to sign a petition and waiver agreement which shall be recorded and run with
the land granting permission to the City of Ankeny to enter the property to
remove the SWECS pursuant to the terms of approval and to assure compliance
with the other conditions set forth in the permit.  Removal shall be at the
expense of the owner/operator and the cost may be assessed against the
property.



         (z)   Feasibility Study:  A feasibility study shall be
made of any site prior to installing a wind turbine.  The feasibility study
shall include measuring actual wind speeds at the proposed turbine site for
at least three (3) months.



      (4)   Bulk Regulations.



         (a)   Setbacks:  The minimum distance between any
freestanding SWECS and any property line shall be a distance that is
equivalent to:



            150% of the total system height for towers up to 65
feet in height.



            200% of the total system height for towers that are
65 feet and up to 80 feet in height.



            250% of the total system height for towers that are
80 feet and up to 100 feet in height.



            300% of the total system height for towers that are
100 feet and taller in height.



         The setback shall be measured from the property line to the
point of the SWECS closest to the property line.



         The required setback for any building mounted SWECS shall
be equal to the required setback of the principal building to which the SWECS
is to be attached at such time that the application to install a building
mounted SWECS is received by the City of Ankeny.   



         (b)   Maximum Height:  Height shall be measured from
the ground to the top of the tower, including the wind turbine generator and
blades.



         For lots of more than three (3) and fewer than five (5)
acres, the maximum height shall be 65 feet.



         For lots of five (5) and up to forty (40) acres, the
maximum height shall be 80 feet.



         For lots of forty (40) acres and up to one hundred (100)
acres, the maximum height shall be 100 feet.



         For lots that are one hundred (100) acres and larger, the
maximum height shall be 140 feet.



         Building mounted SWECS may be a maximum of 10 feet higher
than the point of attachment to the building on which they are attached.



         (c)   Minimum Lot Size:



            The minimum lot size for a freestanding SWECS shall
be three (3) acres.



            The minimum lot size for a building mounted SWECS
shall be one (1) acre for any building of less than five (5) stories in
height.



            There shall be no minimum lot size for building
mounted SWECS to be mounted on buildings of five (5) or more stories in
height.



         (d)   Blade Length:  The length of each individual
blade shall not exceed 50% of the height of the tower.



         (e)   Clearance of Blade:  No portion of a horizontal
axis SWECS blade shall extend within 30 feet of the ground.  No portion of a
vertical axis SWECS shall extend within 10 feet of the ground.  No blades
may extend over parking areas, driveways or sidewalks.  No blade may extend
within 20 feet of the nearest tree, structure or above ground utility
facilities.



         (f)   Location:



            No part of a SWECS shall be located within or over
drainage, utility or other established easements.



            A freestanding SWECS shall be located entirely in the
rear yard for residential uses. For a freestanding SWECS for all other uses,
the location shall be appropriate to the property and setting and shall be
determined through the special use permit and site plan review process.



            A SWECS shall be located in compliance with the
guidelines of applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations as
amended from time to time.



            No SWECS shall be constructed so that any part
thereof can extend within 20 feet laterally of an overhead electrical power
line (excluding secondary electrical service lines or service drops).  The
setback from underground electric distribution lines shall be at least five
(5) feet.



            Building mounted SWECS shall be prohibited unless the
owner has obtained a written analysis from an Iowa licensed structural
engineer determining that installation of a SWECS will not cause damage to
the structure and that the SWECS can be securely fastened so as to not pose a
hazard caused by detaching from the structure.



      (5)   Application Required.  Application for SWECS shall be
made on forms provided by the City of Ankeny.  No action may be taken
regarding requests for SWECS until completed applications have been filed and
fees paid.



(Paragraph K Added by Ord. 1664 – Oct. 10 Supp.)



   L.   Temporary Seasonal Uses, such as haunted houses and corn mazes,
subject to the following conditions:



      (1)       The temporary use is limited to a maximum of 30
days.



      (2)       The temporary use is compatible with adjacent uses
and will not adversely affect the surrounding neighborhood by means of odor,
noise, dust or other nuisance.



      (3)       The site of the temporary use will be at least
five (5) acres in size.



      (4)       Adequate off-street parking is provided on-site.



      (5)       Increased traffic by the temporary use will not
adversely affect the surrounding neighborhood or City at large.



      (6)       All signage shall conform to the requirements of
Section 195.04(9)(A) of the Municipal Code.



      (7)       The temporary use is consistent with all
Comprehensive Plan, Municipal Code and City and State regulations.



      (8)       The property owner/applicant shall obtain and
maintain all necessary permits and licenses required for the use, as required
elsewhere in the Municipal Code or by law.



(Paragraph L Added by Ord. 1739 – Oct. 12 Supp.)



2.   Pre-Issuance Review.  Before issuing any Special Use Permit for any
of the above buildings or uses, the Board of Adjustment shall review the
conformity of the proposed building or use with the standards of the
comprehensive plan and with recognized principles of civic design, land use
planning and landscape architecture.  The Zoning Board of Adjustment may
approve the Special Use Permit as submitted or, before approval, may require
that the applicant modify, alter, adjust or amend the proposal as the Zoning
Board of Adjustment deems necessary to the end that it preserves the intent
and purpose of this Zoning Ordinance to promote public health, safety, morals
and the general welfare.



3.   Application; Feasibility Evidence and Site Plan Required. 
Application for a Special Use Permit under the terms of this section shall be
accompanied by evidence concerning the feasibility of the proposed request
and its effect on surrounding property; and shall include a site plan
defining the areas to be developed for buildings, the areas to be developed
for parking, the locations of sidewalks and driveways and the points of
ingress and egress, including access streets where required, the location and
heights of walls, the location and type of landscaping, and the location,
size and number of signs.



4.   Changes; Resubmittal Required.  In the event a Special Use Permit is
granted under the terms of this section, any change thereafter in the
approved use or site plan shall be resubmitted and considered in the same
manner as the original proposal.



196.03    EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.



1.   Existing Lots of Record – Yard Requirements.  In any district
where dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling may be located on any
lot or plot of official record, recorded prior to the effective date of the
Zoning Ordinance, irrespective of its area or width; provided, however, if
two or more lots or plots with continuous frontage in single ownership were
of record prior to the effective date of said ordinance, such lots shall be
considered buildable only in combinations that most nearly approximate the
lot width and area requirements of the district in which located.  The
following yard requirements shall apply:



   A.   The sum of the side yard widths of any such lot or plot shall
not be less than thirty percent of the width of the lot, but in no case less
than ten percent of the width of the lot for any one side yard.



   B.   The depth of the rear yard of any such lot need not exceed
twenty percent of the depth of the lots, but in no case less than 20-feet.



2.   Yard Setback Exceptions.  Exceptions to the required setbacks may be
modified as follows:



   A.    All zone districts.



      (1)     Front Yard.  Usual steps.



      (2)     Rear Yard.  Elevated docks and usual steps.



      (3)     Side Yard. Elevated docks, air conditioning and/or
heating units, and usual steps.



   B.   Residential Districts Only.



      (1)     Front Yard.  Decks less than 36-inches in height
which project not more than ten-feet into the required yard.



      (2)     Rear Yard.  Unenclosed, above and below, decks which
project not more than 12- feet into the required rear yard. 



      (3)     Side Yard.  Egress window wells and chimneys
provided a chimney does not project more than two feet (2’) into the
required side yard setback. 



3.   Residence Districts – Inaccessible Water and Sewer Lines.  In any
residence district where neither a public water supply nor a public sanitary
sewer is accessible, the lot area and frontage requirements shall be as
follows:  lot area, one acre; lot width at building line, 130-feet. 
However, where a public water supply system is accessible, these requirements
shall be one-half acre and 100-feet respectively.



4.   Approved Plats Not Meeting Minimum Requirements.  In the event a
plat which has been approved has one or more lots that do not meet the
minimum requirements for the district in which located, the following
exceptions shall apply:



   A.   Front Yard – same as specified for the district in which
located.



   B.   Lot Width and Side Yard – No lot shall be approved for
building purposes having a width less than 55-feet, except as otherwise
provided in this Zoning Ordinance.  Side yards shall be the same as
specified for the district in which located.



   C.   Rear Yard – The rear yard may be reduced proportionately to
the variance permitted from standard lot size, which will be 125-feet of
depth for the purpose of this section.



5.   Through Lot Buildings – Front Yard Requirement.  Principal
buildings on through lots extending through from street to street shall at a
minimum provide the required front yard on both streets.  In residential
zone districts, one yard shall be defined as the rear yard (see Section
191.06).



6.   Yards – Unobstructed Opening to the Sky.  Every part of a required
yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed with any building or structure,
except for permitted accessory buildings in a rear yard and for the ordinary
projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features in side
and rear yards projecting not to exceed 24-inches.



7.   Side Yards – Mixed-Use Requirements.  In instances where buildings
are erected containing two or more uses housed vertically, the required side
yards for the first floor use shall control.



196.04    AMENDMENTS.



1.   Council’s Authority.  The Council may from time to time, on its
own action or on petition, after public notice and hearings as provided by
law, and after a report by the Plan and Zoning Commission, amend, supplement
or change the boundaries or regulations in this Zoning Ordinance or
subsequently established, and such amendment shall not become effective
except by the favorable vote of a majority of all the members of the Council.



2.   Additional Notices; Public Notification Signs.  Any person who
requests a land use plan amendment or rezoning of property shall cause to be
erected at all of the street frontages of the property a public notification
sign, stating a notification message as prescribed by City staff, and
intended to inform the public of the proposed change and the time and place
of the hearing on said change.  Public notification signage will be black
letters on a white sign board and will be installed in accordance with the
following minimum standard:



 

Speed Limit
 
Lettering
 
Number of Signs on Each Street Frontage
 
Minimum Size


20 MPH to 35 MPH
 
3 inches
 
one per 300 feet
 
2' x 2'


36 MPH and greater
 
6 inches
 
one per 1,000 feet
 
4' x 8'



 



Such public notification signs shall be erected no less than seven days
before the hearing before the Plan and Zoning Commission, and shall remain in
place until the final hearing before the City Council.  It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to ensure that the signs are erected and
maintained to be visible from the street rights-of-way in accordance with the
provisions of this section.  The failure on the part of the property owner
to erect and maintain the public notification signs may be considered by the
Commission and Council, along with all other facts and circumstances, in
determining whether the request for rezoning shall be granted.  The property
owner shall remove the signage within seven days of the date of the final
action on the rezoning or land use plan amendment by the City Council.  Any
person who removes a public notification sign erected by the property owner,
without the property owner’s consent, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



3.   Petition Requirements.  Whenever any person desires that any
amendment or change be made in this Zoning Ordinance, or any change of
district boundaries, as to any property in the City, and there is presented
to the Council a petition requesting such change or amendment which clearly
describes the property and its boundaries for which the change or amendment
is desired, duly signed by the owners of fifty percent of the area of all
real estate included within the boundaries of said tract as described in said
petition and, in addition, duly signed by the owners of sixty percent of the
area of all real estate lying outside of said tract but within 250 feet of
the boundaries thereof, intervening streets and alleys not to be included in
computing such 250 feet, it shall be the duty of the Council to vote upon
such petition within a reasonable time after the filing of such petition with
the City Clerk.



4.   Amendment; Waiver.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
192.06(4) and 192.08(6),  of this Zoning Ordinance, if the amendment
proposes a change in the zoning classification to an R-3A or R-5 zoning
district, the site plan or development plan requirements of such zoning
district shall be deferred if such zoning change is Council-initiated under
the provisions of subsection 1 of this section.  Provided, further, any
person requesting the change to the R-3A, or R-5 zoning district may request
the Plan and Zoning Commission to defer requirements for presenting a site
plan and/or development plan at the time of filing of the petition for
rezoning.  The Plan and Zoning Commission may thereupon recommend a deferral
of the requirements of Sections 192.06(4) and 192.08(6) subject to the
approval of the Council.  If the requirements of a site plan and/or
development plan have been deferred under the provisions of this section, the
following provisions shall apply:



   A.   Unplatted Property.  If the rezoning action covers unplatted
land, the site plan and/or development plan must be submitted to and approved
by the City Council prior to approval of the final plat.



   B.   Platted Property.  In the event that the rezoning action
covers property which has been previously platted, no building permits shall
be granted within such zoning district until the site plan and/or development
plan have been submitted to and approved by the City Council.



   C.   Site Plan Requirements.  In the event that the required site
plan and/or development plan have been deferred under this section, all
requirements of the applicable zoning district pertaining to such plans,
including the requirements for notice and hearing, shall be observed at the
time of submission of such plan prior to final Council approval.



5.   Re-filing.  In case the proposed amendment, supplement or change is
disapproved by the Plan and Zoning Commission, or a protest is presented duly
signed by the owners of twenty percent or more either of the area of the lots
included in such proposed change, or of those immediately adjacent in the
rear thereof, extending the depth of one lot not to exceed 200 feet
therefrom, or of those directly opposite thereto, extending the depth of one
lot not to exceed 200 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots,
such amendments shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of at
least four-fifths of all members of the Council.  Whenever any petition for
amendment, supplement or change of the zoning or regulations contained in
this Zoning Ordinance or subsequently established has been denied by the
Council, then no new petition covering any of the same property or the same
property and additional property shall be filed with or considered by the
Council until one year has elapsed from the date of the filing of the first
petition.



6.   Filing Fees.  Before any action shall be taken as provided in this
Zoning Ordinance, the owner or owners of the property proposed or recommended
to be changed in the zoning district regulations or zoning district
boundaries shall pay a fee as established by City Council Resolution. 




(Chapter 196 amended by Ord. 1651 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




CHAPTER 197
ZONING ORDINANCE
ADMINISTRATION



 

197.01  Zoning Board of Adjustment
 
197.04  Zoning Administrator


197.02  Occupancy and Compliance Certificates
 
197.05  Enforcement


197.03  Site Plans
 
 



 



197.01    ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.



1.   Established.  A Zoning Board of Adjustment is established which
shall consist of five members.  The terms of office of the members of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be for five (5) years on a staggered basis
and their appointment shall be made by the Mayor, with the approval of the
Council.  Any member of the Board who shall thereafter be absent from three
meetings of the Board during any one calendar year, without good cause, shall
be deemed to have vacated such office on the occasion of such third
absence.  The Chairperson shall immediately report such vacancy to the Mayor
who shall, with the approval of the Council, fill such vacancy for the
unexpired term.



2.   Meetings.  The meetings of the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine.  Such Chairperson, or in the absence of the Chairperson, the
acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.  All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.  The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member
of each question, or if a member is absent or fails to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall
be a public record.  The presence of three members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum.



3.   Appeal Procedure.



   A.   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the City
affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator.  Such appeal shall be
taken within ten days by filing with the City Clerk a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof.  The City Clerk shall forthwith transmit to
the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from is taken.  An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board, after
notice of appeal has been filed with the City Clerk, that by reason of the
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator cause imminent peril to life or property.  In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which
may be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application or notice
to the Clerk and the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.



   B.   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing on the
appeal, shall give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties
in interest, and shall decide the same within a reasonable time.  At the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.  Before
an appeal is filed with the Zoning Board of Adjustment, the appellant shall
pay a fee as established by City Council Resolution.



4.   Powers and Duties.  The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the
following powers and duties:



   A.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Zoning Administrator in enforcement of this Zoning Ordinance.



   B.   To grant a variation in the regulations when a property owner
can show that his property was acquired in good faith; that by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property
or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary
or exceptional situation, the strict application of the terms of this Zoning
Ordinance actually prohibits the use of this property in the district; and
that the Board is satisfied under the evidence before it that a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance would result in
unnecessary hardship; provided, however, all variations granted under this
clause shall be in harmony with the intended spirit and purpose of this
Zoning Ordinance.  In granting any variance, the Board may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this Zoning
Ordinance.  Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part
of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation
and punishable under Section 197.05 of this chapter.  Under no circumstances
shall the Board grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the
terms of this Zoning Ordinance in the district involved, or any use expressly
or by implication prohibited by its terms in said district.



   C.   To permit the following exceptions to the district regulations
set forth in this Zoning Ordinance; provided, that all exceptions shall by
their design, construction and operation adequately safeguard the health,
safety and welfare of the occupants of adjoining and surrounding property,
shall not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property,
shall not increase congestion in the public streets, shall not increase
public danger of fire or endanger the public safety, and shall not diminish
or impair established property values in surrounding areas:



      (1)   To permit erection and use of a building or the use of
premises or vary the height, yard, or area regulations in any location for a
public service corporation for public utility purposes, or for purposes of
public communication, including the distribution of newspapers, which the
Board determines is reasonably necessary for the public convenience or
welfare.



      (2)   To permit the use of property in residential districts
for off-street parking purposes as accessory to permitted residential
district uses where said parking lots do not immediately adjoin the permitted
residential district use.



      (3)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary
line of a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record or by
existing contract or purchase at the time of the passage of the Zoning
Ordinance, but in no case shall such extension of the district boundary line
exceed forty feet in any direction.



      (4)   To hear and decide upon permit applications for
conditional uses in the flood plain overlay zone as outlined in Section
193.01 of this Zoning Ordinance.



5.   Appeal.



   A.   In exercising the powers and duties set forth in subsection 4
of this section, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the
provisions of law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from, and may make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as it believes proper.  To
that end it shall have all the powers of the Zoning Administrator.  The
concurring vote of three of the members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this Zoning Ordinance; provided, however,
the action of the Board shall not become effective until after the resolution
of the Board, setting forth the full reason for its decision and the vote of
each member participating therein, has been filed.  Such resolution
immediately following the Board’s final decision shall be filed in the
office of the Board and shall be open to public inspection.



   B.   Every variation and exception granted or denied by the Board
shall be supported by a written testimony or evidence submitted in connection
therewith.



   C.   Any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of
the City, or any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any
decision of the Board, may present to a court of record a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of the illegality.  Such petition shall be presented
to the court within thirty days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board.



197.02    OCCUPANCY AND COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES.



1.   Application.  Certificates for occupancy and compliance shall be
applied for coincidentally with the application for a building permit and
shall be issued within ten days after the lawful erection or alteration of
the building is completed.  A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk and the Zoning Administrator, and copies
shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy
interest in the building affected.



2.   Land and Buildings.  No land shall be occupied or used and no
building, erected or structurally altered after the effective date of the
Zoning Ordinance, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any
purpose whatsoever, until a certificate is issued by the Zoning Administrator
stating that the building and use comply with the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance and the building and health ordinances of the City.



3.   Change of Use of Buildings.  No change of use shall be made in any
building or part thereof, erected or structurally altered after the effective
date of the Zoning Ordinance, without a permit being issued therefor by the
Zoning Administrator.  No permit shall be issued to make a change unless the
changes are in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.



4.   Building Alterations.  No permit for excavation for, or the erection
or alteration of, any building shall be issued before the application has
been made for a certificate of occupancy and compliance, and no building or
premises shall be occupied until the certificate and permit are issued.



5.   Nonconforming Uses.  A certificate of occupancy shall be required of
all nonconforming uses.  Application for certificates of occupancy for
nonconforming uses shall be filed with the City Clerk within twelve months
from the effective date of the Zoning Ordinance, accompanied by affidavits of
proof that such nonconforming use was not established in violation of Section
196.01 of this Zoning Ordinance.  Nothing in this part shall prevent the
continuance of a nonconforming use as authorized in Section 196.01, unless a
discontinuance is necessary for the safety of life or property.



197.03    SITE PLANS. 



Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a site plan
which meets the requirements specified in Section 192.02 with the exception
that applicants for building permits on single family and duplex lots shall
submit a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot
to be built upon, the size, shape and location of the building to be erected,
and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement
of this Zoning Ordinance.  A record of applications and site plans shall be
kept in the office of the Zoning Administrator.



197.04    ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. 



The Department Director or designee is the  Zoning Administrator and in that
capacity shall exercise the following duties:



1.   To inspect and approve building permit applications for conformance
to this Zoning Ordinance, before the building permit is issued by the
Building Official;



2.   To investigate reports of violations of this Zoning Ordinance
including a written report of the facts pertaining to such violation;



3.   To attend all meetings of the Plan and Zoning Commission.



4.   To act as Secretary of the Zoning Board of Adjustment and to carry
out and enforce any decisions or determinations by said Board;



5.   To administer and enforce the flood plain standards adopted by the
City in the following manner:



   A.   Review all flood plain development permit applications to
ensure that the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance will be satisfied;



   B.   Review all flood plain development permit applications to
ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state or
local governmental agencies;



   C.   Verify and maintain a record of:



      (1)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and whether or not such structures contain a basement;



      (2)   Obtain, if the structure has been flood-proofed, the
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure was
flood-proofed;



   D.   Notify adjacent communities and/or counties and the Iowa
Natural Resources Council prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse,



   E.   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation
data available from a Federal, State, or other source, until such other data
has been provided by the Administrator, as criteria for requiring that:



      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of
residential structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
above the base flood level, and



      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
or flood-proofed one foot above the base flood level;



   F.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, variances and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
Zoning Ordinance;



   G.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator;



   H.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations
or modifications to the community’s boundaries;



   I.   Review subdivision proposals to insure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this Zoning Ordinance and advise the City
Council of potential conflicts.



197.05    ENFORCEMENT. 



In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or
land is used in violation of this Zoning Ordinance, the City, in addition to
other remedies, shall institute any proper action or proceedings in the name
of the City to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or
abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or
land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about
said premises.  Each day that a violation is permitted to exist constitutes
a separate offense.  The Zoning Administrator is designated and ordered to
enforce this Zoning Ordinance.




(Chapter 197 amended by Ord. 1651 – Apr. 10 Supp.)




CHAPTER 200
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS



 



200.01  Title
 
200.21  Submission of Final Plat to Commission


200.02  Purpose
 
200.22  Commission Approval or Disapproval of Final Plat


200.03  Jurisdiction
 
200.23  Council Action on Approval


200.04  Definitions
 
200.24  Time Limit on Council’s Action


200.05  Pre-Application Conference Established
 
200.25  Recordation


200.06  Variances Of Subdivision Regulations
 
200.26  Required Information on Final Plat


200.07  Request For Waiver of Requirements
 
200.27  Material Accompanying Final Plat


200.08  Distribution of Copies
 
200.28  Installation of Improvements


200.09  Form and Contents of the Sketch Plan
 
200.29  Acceptance of Public Improvements


200.10  Approval of Sketch Plan
 
200.30  Minimum Design Standards


200.11  Final Plat
 
200.31  Design Standards for Streets


200.12  Use of Preliminary Plats
 
200.32  Design Standards for Blocks


200.13  Partial Platting
 
200.33  Design Standards for Lots


200.14  Distribution of Copies of Preliminary Plat
 
200.34  Building Lines


200.15  Preliminary Plat Approval Procedure
 
200.35  Public Sites and Open Spaces


200.16  Council Action on Preliminary Plat
 
200.36  Improvements


200.17  Required Information on Preliminary Plat
 
200.37  Utilities


200.18  Violation
 
200.38  Miscellaneous Provisions


200.19  Submission of Final Plat Without Prior Approval
 
200.39  Bonds and Fees


200.20  Submission of Final Plat With Prior Approval
 
200.40  Exceptions, Amendments and Penalties




 



200.01  TITLE.



This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Regulations” of the City.



200.02  PURPOSE.



In the best interests of the City and to assist the subdivider in harmonizing
the subdivider’s interests with those of the City, the following
regulations are adopted in order that adherence to same will bring results
beneficial to both parties.  It is deemed necessary to establish minimum
standards for the design and development of all new subdivisions in order to
eliminate piecemeal planning of subdivisions which brings about undesirable
disconnected patchwork of pattern and poor circulation of traffic.  It is
the duty of the Plan and Zoning Commission to require that all regulations
set forth in this chapter be complied with before giving its approval.  It
is the purpose of this chapter to make certain regulations and requirements
for the platting of land which the Council deems necessary for the health,
safety, and general welfare of the City.



200.03  JURISDICTION.



This chapter governs the subdivision and platting of all lands within the
corporate limits of the City and the unincorporated area with two miles of
the corporate boundaries of the City.  It is the specific intent and purpose
of this provision to extend all applicable regulations concerning the
subdivision of land as set forth in this chapter to all land within two miles
of the corporate boundaries of the City and to establish the City’s
jurisdiction for review and approval of such subdivision to such areas, all
as is specifically provided for and authorized under Section 354.9 of the
Code of Iowa.  This section shall be construed and interpreted in all
manners so as to comply with said Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa.  As
allowed by Iowa Code Section 354.9, the City of Ankeny, Iowa, shall review
all plats of survey within two miles of its City limits.




(Ord. 1637 - Jul. 09 Supp.)




200.04  DEFINITIONS.



For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms are defined.



1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way which affords a secondary
means of access to abutting property.



2.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is
entirely bounded by streets or by streets and an exterior boundary or
boundaries of the subdivision.



3.   “Building line” means a line on a plat between which line and a
street no building or structure may be erected.



4.   “City Engineer” means the person or persons hired by the City,
either full time or part time, with the authority to perform the official
inspections and other functions designated by the Council necessary for the
enforcement of the regulations set forth in this chapter.



5.   “Collector street” means the street or thoroughfare which carries
traffic from minor streets to the major system of arterial streets and
highways, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and streets for circulation within such a development.



6.   “Commission” means the City Plan and Zoning Commission.



7.   “Comprehensive plan” means the comprehensive plan adopted by the
Council, known as the “Comprehensive Plan for Ankeny,” together with all
changes and amendments thereto which are adopted from time to time.



8.   “Cul-de-sac” means a minor street having one end open to traffic,
the other being permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround.



9.   “Design standards” means the specification to land owners or
subdividers for the preparation of plats, indicating, among other things, the
optimum, minimum and maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-way,
blocks, easements, and lots.



10.   “Easement” means a grant by a property owner of the use of land
for construction or maintenance of facilities in accordance with the
comprehensive plan, together with all changes and amendments thereto which
are adopted from time to time.



11.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended for building development or for transfer of ownership.



12.   “Major thoroughfare street” means any street which is used
primarily for fast, intense volume, mixed vehicular through traffic.



13.   “Marginal-access street” means any minor street which is
parallel to and adjacent to arterial streets and highways, and which provides
access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.



14.   “Minor street” means a street used primarily for access to the
abutting properties.



15.   “Outlot” means a portion of a platted subdivision or other
parcel of land not intended by its owner for immediate building development.



16.   “Plat” means a graphic presentation on which a plan for the
division of land is presented and which is submitted for approval and
subsequent action.



17.   “Roadway” means the paved area within a street right-of-way
available or to be available for vehicular traffic, including all curb and
gutter facilities.



18.   “Street” means the right-of-way or easement which serves or is
to serve as a vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting lands.



19.   “Subdivider” means any person, partnership, corporation,
trustee, trust or other legal entity commencing proceedings under this title
to effect a subdivision of land.



20.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for transfer of ownership or
building development; or any change in existing street lines or public
easements.  The term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to
context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.



200.05  PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE ESTABLISHED.



Applicants wishing to submit a subdivision plat shall first consult with the
City engineering department in order to review the feasibility and design of
the proposed development.  The applicant is encouraged to meet with the
utility companies to receive any comments they may have prior to the
conference.  The applicant shall submit a sketch plan to the City
engineering department at the time of such pre-application conference.  The
purpose of such pre-application conference is:



1.   To acquaint the applicant with the subdivision regulations and
related requirements of the City;



2.   To review the sketch plan with the applicant;



3.   To list the requirements that the applicant must comply with prior to
the submission of the preliminary plat or final sketch plan;



4.   To establish the applicable street widths for the subdivision under
the provisions of Section 200.31;



5.   To determine whether the developer wishes to request waivers of any
subdivision regulations pursuant to the provisions of 200.40.



200.06  VARIANCES OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.



Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual topography, size or
shape that the strict application of the subdivision requirements would
result in substantial hardship or whenever the strict application of the
subdivision requirements would be contrary to the public interest, the
Council, upon recommendation of the Commission, may vary or modify such
requirements so that the subdivider is allowed to develop his property in a
reasonable manner; provided, such variance or modification will not have the
effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the subdivision regulations
for the City or of interfering with carrying out the comprehensive plan.



200.07  REQUEST FOR WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.



If the developer requests a waiver of any requirements of the subdivision
regulations, the developer shall submit to the City engineering department
the following items:



1.   A written letter requesting a waiver with specific reference to the
applicable code section or sections.



2.   Fourteen copies of a sketch plan.  Sketch plan should be revised to
indicate those changes being made by the developer as a result of the
pre-application conference.



3.   Any report or items which may be applicable to the waiver request
which developer wishes to submit.



4.   After receipt of the sketch plan and request for waiver, the City
engineering department shall immediately forward the same to the Commission
along with the written recommendation of the City engineering department.



5.   The Commission shall thereupon proceed in accordance with the
provisions of Section 200.40.



200.08  DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES.



The engineering department shall submit a copy of the sketch plan to the
following:



1.   City Water, Waste Water and Streets Departments;



2.   City Engineering Department;



3.   City Building Inspection Department;



4.   School Superintendent;



5.   Parks Department; and



6.   Utility franchise holders.



200.09  FORM AND CONTENTS OF THE SKETCH PLAN.



The sketch plan is intended to reflect the general intentions of the
developer with regard to layout of lots, streets and utilities.  It is also
intended to provide a worksheet for discussion and revision.  The sketch
plan shall be made at a maximum scale of one inch equals one hundred feet. 
The sheet size shall be eighteen inches by twenty-four inches.  The sketch
plan shall contain the following information:



1.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant and owner;



2.   Date of preparation, scale and north arrow;



3.   Existing and proposed land use and zoning;



4.   Proposed lot locations and sizes;



5.   Major street and utility extensions;



6.   Proposed layout of internal streets and utilities;



7.   Adjacent existing street and utility layout;



8.   Adjacent land uses and zoning;



9.   Vicinity sketch;



10.   100-year flood elevation data.



200.10  APPROVAL OF SKETCH PLAN.



1.   The sketch plan, in its final form, along with supporting documents,
if any, shall be submitted to the Commission for its recommendation and
report.



2.   The City Engineering Department, after reviewing the submittal, shall
prepare a report and forward its recommendations to the Commission.



3.   Waivers of the subdivision regulations may only be granted by the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the Commission.  In
granting such variances and modifications, the Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of
the requirements so varied or modified.  The Council may only approve the
requested waivers or variations upon recommendation by the Commission.



200.11  FINAL PLAT.



The final plat shall conform substantially to the sketch plan as approved
and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved sketch plan which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at
that time; provided, however, such portion shall conform to all requirements
of the regulations set forth in this chapter.  Subsequent final plats
covering the remaining portions of the sketch plan shall be submitted within
24 months.  Council may approve extensions upon recommendation of the
Commission.



200.12  USE OF PRELIMINARY PLATS.



If the developer wishes preliminary approval of the final plat prior to the
preparation of such plat, the developer may submit a preliminary plat to the
Commission for approval.  Such preliminary plat need only contain the
information required under Section 200.17 of this chapter.  A final plat
which conforms substantially to the preliminary plat shall be approved by the
Commission within 30 days after application for approval of such final plat,
if such plat is submitted within 24 months from the date of approval of the
preliminary plat.  The final plat shall be approved by the Council within 20
days of the date of its approval by the Commission.



200.13  PARTIAL PLATTING.



The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and, if desired by the subdivider, may constitute only that portion
of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at
the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of the regulations set forth in this chapter.  Subsequent final plats
covering the remaining portions of the preliminary plat shall be submitted
within 24 months of the date of approval of the preliminary plat.



200.14  DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.



Fourteen copies of the preliminary plat and two copies of the supplementary
material may be filed with the Commission, with written application for
approval, at least fifteen days prior to the meeting at which it is to be
considered.  The Clerk of the Commission shall submit a copy of the
preliminary plat to the following:



1.   City Public Utility Department; Water, Wastewater and Streets
Departments;



2.   City Fire and Police Departments;



3.   The Building Inspection Department;



4.   School Superintendent;



5.   Parks Department;



6.   Utility franchise holders.



200.15  PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE.



The Commission shall study the preliminary plat and other materials for
conformity thereof to the regulations set forth in this chapter.  The
Commission may confer with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the
kind and extent of such improvements to be made by the subdivider.  The
Commission shall approve or reject such plat within 45 days after the date of
submission thereof to the Commission.  If the Commission does not act within
45 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be approved; provided,
however, the subdivider may agree to an extension of the time for a period
not to exceed 60 days.



200.16  COUNCIL ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.



After approval of the preliminary plat by the Commission, six copies shall be
submitted to the Council for approval at least ten days prior to the meeting
at which it is to be considered.  If the Commission does not approve the
preliminary plat, the Council may approve the preliminary plat only by a
four-fifths vote of the entire membership of the Council.



200.17  REQUIRED INFORMATION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.



The preliminary plat shall include the following:



1.   The official description of the property to be platted.



2.   Contour intervals of not more than five feet and including the
100-year flood line elevations and base flood elevation data.



3.   The location of any surface features, such as property lines,
buildings, railroads, watercourses, topography, terrain, surface water
drainage, and similar items affecting development.



4.   The location and size of such subsurface features as sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts and similar items.



5.   Vicinity sketch showing location of the tract.  The vicinity sketch
shall show street alignment of existing and proposed subdivisions.  The
vicinity sketch shall not exceed the scale of one inch equals 500 feet.



6.   Boundary lines, including distance; easements, including location,
width and purpose.



7.   Lot lines, lot dimensions, lot numbers and block numbers.



8.   Streets, including names, right-of-way and roadway width.



9.   Name under which the proposed subdivision will be recorded along with
the name and address of the owner and subdivider.



10.   Name of adjacent subdivisions or property owners if the adjoining
property is unplatted.



11.   North point, scale, date, name, and address of the engineer or land
surveyor.



12.   Sites for schools, parks, playgrounds or other public uses in
accordance with the comprehensive plan.



13.   The zoning district or districts.



The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale not to exceed one inch equals
100 feet.  The Commission may request additional data if they so desire.



200.18  VIOLATION.



Any person who records or attempts to record a preliminary plat in any office
of the County Recorder shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished
accordingly.



200.19  SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL.



The developer may submit a final plat for approval without having first
submitted a preliminary plat or sketch plan.  In this event, the final plat
shall first be submitted to the Engineering Department in triplicate.  Such
plat shall then be checked by the Engineering Department to insure its
compliance with State law and local regulations.  No such plat shall be
approved by the Commission unless the same shall have been certified by the
City Engineer as complying with all State laws and local regulations.



200.20  SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT WITH PRIOR APPROVAL.



In the event that a developer has obtained prior approval of a preliminary
plat or sketch plan within two years of the date of filing the final plat,
the developer shall file three copies of the final plat and supplementary
materials with the City Engineering Department.  The City Engineering
Department shall check the plat and supplementary materials to insure
compliance with the preliminary plat or sketch plan.  If such final plat
substantially complies with the preliminary plat or sketch plan, the City
Engineer shall immediately approve the same.



200.21  SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT TO COMMISSION.



Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted in writing to
the Commission at least fifteen days prior to the meeting at which it is to
be considered.  The final plat shall contain such information as is required
under Section 200.26 and shall be accompanied by such material as is required
under Section 200.27.



200.22  COMMISSION APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.



Within thirty days after application for approval of the final plat, the
Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat.  If the Commission
approves, it shall affix its seal upon the plat, together with the certifying
signature of its chairman and secretary.  If it disapproves, it shall set
forth its reasons in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy.



200.23  COUNCIL ACTION ON APPROVAL.



After approval of the final plat by the Commission and the fulfillment of the
regulations set forth in this chapter, six copies of the plat shall be
forwarded by the Commission to the Council for approval at least ten days
prior to the meeting at which it is to be considered.  If the Commission
does not approve the final plat, the Council may approve the plat only by a
four-fifths vote of the entire membership of the Council.



200.24  TIME LIMIT ON COUNCIL’S ACTION.



In case, on application for such approval of any plat, the Council fails to
either approve or reject the same within 60 days from date of application,
the developer shall have the right to file the same with the County Recorder,
Assessor or Auditor.  If the plat is disapproved by the Council, such
disapproval shall point out wherein the proposed plat is objectionable.



200.25  RECORDATION.



Upon approval of the Council, the developer shall record the plat with the
county recorder within thirty days.  If not recorded within this time, the
approval shall be null and void.  Immediately after recording, the original
or a duly certified copy shall be filed with the office of the Clerk.



200.26  REQUIRED INFORMATION ON FINAL PLAT.



The final plat shall show the following:



1.   Primary control points, approved by the City Engineer, or
descriptions and ties to such control points, to which all dimensions,
angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred.



2.   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements, and
other rights-of-way and property lines of residential lots and other sites,
with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, and radii, arcs and
central angles of all curves.



3.   Name and right-of-way width of each street.



4.   Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easement, including 100-year
flood elevation line and base flood elevation data.



5.   Number to identify each lot or site and block.



6.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated
or reserved.



7.   Minimum building lines in zoned areas, proposed building lines in all
other areas, and minimum floor elevation allowable for building sites within
the flood plain overlay zone (one foot above the 100-year flood elevation).



8.   Location and description of monuments.



9.   Certification by a surveyor or engineer certifying to the accuracy of
the survey and plat.



10.   Certification of the applicant approving the plat.



11.   Warranty deed by the owner dedicating streets and any sites for
public use.



12.   Name of subdivision.



13.   Title scale, north arrow, and date.



200.27  MATERIAL ACCOMPANYING FINAL PLAT.



The following material shall accompany the final plat:



1.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds.  The statement by the proprietors may also include
a dedication to the public of all lands within the plat that are designated
for streets, alleys, parks, open areas, school property, or other public use,
if the dedication is approved by the Council.



2.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that
the plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their
desire, signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds.  An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section
354.12 of the Code of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the
mortgage or lienholder.  When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the
subdivision, a release of mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas
conveyed to the City or dedicated to the public.



3.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of
title of the land being platted.  The opinion shall state the names of the
proprietors and holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land
being platted and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing
the encumbrances.  Utility easements shall not be construed to be
encumbrances for the purpose of this section.



4.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free
from certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured
by bond in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.



5.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.



6.   A cross section and profile of streets approved by the City
Engineer.  The profiles shall be drawn to City standard scales and
elevations and shall be based on M.S.L. datum plane approved by the City
Engineer.  The location, size, and grade of all conduits, sewers, pipelines,
and similar devices to be placed under the streets and alleys shall be shown
in the profile and cross sections where they occur.



7.   A grading plan showing areas of excavation, earthwork and soil
erosion control methods which will be practiced, and quantities involved in
the soil erosion control methods.



8.   All protective covenants, affecting the subdivided land, in form for
recording.



9.   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or deductions as
may be required by the Commission in the enforcement of these regulations.



200.28  INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.



All improvements required to be installed pursuant to the subdivision
regulations of the City shall be installed prior to the issuance of building
permits for buildings or structures lying within the plat unless performance
bonds and/or a letter of credit for sidewalks, street trees and erosion
control insuring the completion of all required public improvements are filed
with the City, under the provisions of Section 200.39.  In no event shall
occupancy permits be issued authorizing the occupancy of any dwelling or
structure within any plat until all improvements have been completed and
accepted by the City.



200.29  ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.



Public streets and other public improvements shall only be accepted by the
Council after the following procedures have been undertaken and completed:



1.   Prior to the construction of any public improvement, the developer
shall submit to the City Engineering Department three copies of the
construction contract and a maintenance bond complying with the provisions of
Section 200.39.



2.   The City Engineering Department shall thereupon check the
construction plans and bond to insure compliance with the regulations of the
City.  After ascertaining that the construction contracts and bonds comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the Engineering Department shall submit
the same to the Council for its approval.



3.   All improvements must be constructed and installed in accordance with
these regulations and the specifications of the City.



4.   All public improvements constructed under the provisions of these
ordinances must first be approved by the City Engineer prior to their
acceptance by the Council.



200.30  MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.



The standards and details of design contained in the following Sections
200.31 through 200.34 are intended only as minimum requirements and the
subdivider should use standards consistent with the site conditions to assure
an economical, pleasant, and durable neighborhood.  All subdivisions shall
conform to the comprehensive plan approved by the Commission and adopted by
the Council.



200.31  DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS.



1.   Residential street systems shall be designed to be compatible with
existing streets, the official map of the City and to rationalize traffic
patterns within new subdivision.



2.   The street plan shall accommodate existing street alignments which
enter or border the tract.



3.   Existing and proposed streets which are a part of a master
transportation plan shall be incorporated into the design of new
subdivisions.  Special exceptions may be granted for streets that can be
terminated by a cul-de-sac or other arrangement without seriously affecting
traffic flows and existing trip destinations.



4.   Existing streets, constructed or platted, shall not be vacated,
unless the vacation:



   A.   Is in accordance with the City master plan;



   B.   Will alleviate a significant traffic problem; and



   C.   Does not remove reasonable access to individual properties.



5.   No half streets shall be permitted.  Streets designed to create a
border for the tract shall be platted as whole streets according to their use
and classification.



6.   No dead-end streets shall be permitted except as a temporary measure
approved by the City.



7.   The design of residential streets shall be based on traffic
projections into and from the proposed subdivision at potential full
development of the area, as indicated from current zoning and the master plan
of the City.



8.   Streets and alleys shall be completed to grades which have been
approved by the City Engineer and surfaced in accordance with the standard
specifications of the City.



9.   Streets that are in obvious alignment with existing streets shall
bear the name of the existing street.  The final plat shall show the
proposed name of new streets and these names shall not duplicate or sound
similar to existing street names.



10.   A deed to the City shall be given for all streets before the same
may be accepted for City maintenance.



11.   Where practical and compatible with the zoning and internal layout
of the subdivision, dwelling unit driveway access to collector streets shall
be avoided.



12.   Street classes below collector shall not connect two or more
arterial streets, or an arterial and collector street.  Residential streets
which connect higher order streets often become shortcuts, thereby increasing
the traffic load on purely residential streets and defeating the purpose of
the design.



13.   The following street length requirements shall be observed.



   A.   The uninterrupted length of any residential street between
intersections shall not exceed 1,000 feet.



   B.   The length of cul-de-sac shall not exceed 500 feet without
special approval of the City.



   C.   Where the length of a cul-de-sac or other street with a
turnaround provided at its end exceeds 500 feet, without an intersection, an
intermediate turnaround shall be provided.



14.   The minimum width for street rights-of-way and paving shall conform
to Table “A” provided that the applicable conditions are met.



   A.   Rights-of-way for residential streets shall be determined by
the need for such rights-of-way to protect the City and to enable future
revisions to the street system, which can reasonably be foreseen.



   B.   Rights-of-way requirements for street classes below collector
streets shall not be based upon provisions for future widening.



   C.   Rights-of-way requirements for all collector and arterial
streets shall consider the need for future widening.



   D.   Rights-of-way for pedestrian access adjacent to paved streets
shall be granted where sidewalks or other structures are deemed necessary in
addition to the street.



   E.   If future widening is indicated, the rights-of-way width shall
be minimum, consistent with accommodating the increased pavement.



   F.   Slopes adjacent to roadways, natural or manmade, may be placed
within easements on individual properties rather than acquired as
rights-of-way.



   G.   On cul-de-sacs below the minimum width, an easement shall be
granted to the City on all properties granting the encroachment of emergency
vehicles.  This easement shall be granted to preclude any damage claims from
property owners in the event it is necessary for public emergency vehicles to
encroach upon residential property for turning, parking, or other maneuvers
associated with the performance of duty by official agencies of the
governmental bodies.



15.   The minimum width provided in Table “A” may be reduced by
Council action if such reduction in width is offset by reduction of on-street
parking as is hereinafter set out:



   A.   Right-of-way width may be reduced on cul-de-sacs and other
minor streets with no on-street parking.



   B.   Right-of-way width may be reduced on a sub-collector street
provided that parking is permitted on one side of the street only.



   C.   Right-of-way width may be reduced on a collector street
provided that no on-street parking is allowed.



16.   Residential street systems shall be designed to maintain a free flow
of traffic consistent with the need for safety of vehicles and pedestrians.



17.   Traffic controls may be imposed by the City in compliance with its
traffic control master plan.



18.   All platted streets within the City shall be dedicated to the City
for public use, the dedication to be by deed or other appropriate conveyance;
provided, however, the Council may waive the requirement of this subsection
under the following conditions:



   A.   The applicant shall submit, for approval by the Council,
proposed bylaws of a property owner’s association established for the
purpose of maintaining the roadway and fully defining the functions,
responsibilities and operating procedures of the association.  The proposed
bylaws shall include but not be limited to provisions which do the following:



      (1)   Automatically grant membership in the association to all
titleholders within the proposed development;



      (2)   Grant to each titleholder within the development the
right to the use and enjoyment of the roadway;



      (3)   Place the responsibility for operation and maintenance
of the roadway on the association;



      (4)   Grant each titleholder voting rights in the association;



      (5)   Provide that the association and the title-holders of
such association will hold the City harmless from any and all claims or
causes of action which may arise in favor of any person claiming damages by
virtue of the failure of the association to adequately maintain the roadway
for public use;



      (6)   Require the association to provide and maintain signs to
be approved by the City Engineering Department notifying the public that such
roadway is a private road and has not been accepted for public use by the
City.



      (7)   Such bylaws shall further provide for a procedure for
assessment against the titleholders in favor of the association for the cost
of maintaining such private roadway.  The bylaws required under this
subdivision shall be prepared in such a manner as to be suitable for
recording.



   B.   The applicant shall provide an easement granting the City the
right to use such roadway for access to all lots abutting the roadway for
police and fire protection or for any other purpose deemed to be necessary
and appropriate.



   C.   The proposed roadway shall be of sufficient width and design to
provide suitable access to all fire prevention motor vehicles and equipment
owned by the City.



19.   Single-family residences should not front on streets on which future
high traffic volumes are anticipated unless a 75-foot building setback line
is platted.



20.   The following regulations govern residential street classification:



   A.   Classification of residential streets is done to assist in the
evaluation of the design of each street in a subdivision’s system.  It is
not intended to be used to set arbitrary standards without assessing the
complete plan for a subdivision and the intended use of each street.



   B.   Residential streets shall be classified according to their
design, use (actual or intended), their relationship to other streets in the
hierarchy and their residential character.



   C.   The classes of streets outlined in Table “A” are adopted.



 




TABLE A – STREETS




Title

 

A.A.D.T Est.

 

Dwelling Units Served

 

Features

 

Conditions




R.O.W.

 

Paving Width



Minor Streets


Reduced cul-de-sac
 

0 to 150

 

Not more than 20 R-1, R-2, R-3(A)

 

Straight 50' turnaround 52.5

 

25.0' 40.0'R

 

A, B, C, D, E, F



Special cul-de-sac
 

150 to 250

 

Not more than 35 R-1, R-2, R-3(A)

 

Straight 50' turnaround 52.5

 

25.0' 40.0'R

 

B, C, D, F, G, I



Special looping
 

150 to 250

 

Not more than 35 R-1, R-2, R-3(A)

 

50'

 

25'

 

B, C, D, F, H, I



Normal cul-de-sac
 

250 to 350

 

Not more than 50 any res.

 

Straight 60' turnaround 56.5

 

27' 40.0'R

 

D, I, J



Normal looping
 

250 to 350

 

Not more than 50 any res.

 

60'

 

27'

 

D, I, K



Normal residential
 

0 to 1500

 

N/A

 

60'

 

29'

 

D, I, L



Collector Streets


Minor collector
 

1500 to 3500

 

N/A

 

70'

 

31'

 

I, M, N, O, P



Normal commercial and industrial
 

1500 to 3500

 

N/A

 

70'

 

31'

 

I, M, N, O, P



Special collector
 

3500 to 6000

 

N/A

 

70'

 

31'

 

I, Q, R, S, T, U



Municipal collector
 

3500 to 8000

 

N/A

 

70'

 

36'

 

I, Q, V



Special boulevard collector
 

0 to 8000

 

N/A

 

80'

 

19' & 19' with raised 14' median

 

I, W



Major Thoroughfares


Minor arterial
 

5000 to 13000

 

N/A

 

80'

 

45'

 

I, X



Boulevard minor arterial
 

5000 to 13000

 

N/A

 

80'

 

21' & 21' with a depressed 14' median

 

I, X



Arterial
 

10000 to 20000

 

N/A

 

100'

 

49'

 

I, X



Boulevard arterial
 

10000 to 20000

 

N/A

 

100'

 

23' & 23' with a depressed 16' median

 

I, X





 




CONDITIONS



A.   Cul-de-sac less than 350 feet in length.


B.   Covenant 20-foot driveways from sidewalk to building line.


C.   Special 35-foot building line.


D.   Two standard overstory trees per lot in five-foot easement.


E.   Paving thickness one inch less than required by standard
specifications.


F.   Entire street in one plat to ensure no change in functional use.


G.   Cul-de-sac less than 450 feet in length.


H.   Looping street of less than 1500 feet in length.


I.   Paving thickness as required by standard specifications.


J.   Cul-de-sac of standard length.


K.   Looping street of less than 2,000 feet in length.


L.   Maximum length between intersections of 1,000 feet.


M.   Maximum length between intersections of 1500 feet except as approved
by City Engineer.


N.   No walks in M zone except as ordered by Council.


O.   Add ten feet to radius minimums required in industrial and commercial
zones.


P.   See special left turn lane for intersection with arterials.


Q.   Maximum length between intersections of 2,000 feet.


R.   One-family and two-family units fronting use conditions B and C of
this subsection.


S.   No parking both sides.


T.   Commercial drives covenanted to three hundred-foot intervals.


U.   Parking to be reviewed for adequacy, or covenant off-street parking.


V.   Commercial drives covenanted to 200-foot intervals.


W.   Can be used in place of normal residential.


X.   A five-foot tree easement with an average of one standard overstory
tree for each side of the street for each 500 feet of frontage.




 



21.   Dwelling Unit Access.



   A.   The subdivision shall have access to public roads.  All
dwelling units shall have access to a platted street.  Emergency vehicle
access shall be available to all dwelling units over an approved street,
easement, or other public right-of-way.



   B.   Dwelling units shall not be given direct driveway access to
arterial streets except:



      (1)   Where existing lots of record abut on arterial streets.



      (2)   In special instances where the configuration of the
tract prevents the construction of an access road or an interior roadway,
after review and approval by the City.



      (3)   Directional and informational signs shall be controlled
so as not to compete with traffic-control signs for the drivers’ attention.



22.   Sidewalk/Pedestrian Circulation System.



   A.   Sidewalks shall be placed parallel to the roadways providing
direct access to:



      (1)   Commercial/retail facilities;



      (2)   Schools;



      (3)   Public recreational facilities;



      (4)   Elsewhere, in accordance with the pedestrian circulation
system as necessary.



   B.   Sidewalks may also be eliminated along one or both sides of
minor streets if the subdivision provides an alternative pedestrian
circulation system.



   C.   Sidewalks may also be eliminated along one or both sides of
major streets, outside of the commercial, retail, and educational
concentrations, if it will facilitate pedestrian safety.



   D.   Pedestrian-vehicular separation shall be considered where
possible.  Design solutions which achieve this separation shall receive
priority consideration.



23.   Drainage.



   A.   Street drainage utilizing curbs and gutters shall be designed
to control the velocity of the flow of water in the gutter below levels which
are hazardous to pedestrian safety.



   B.   Street drainage utilizing roadside swales shall be designed to
be free-flowing but not to the extent that the flow would erode the swales.



   C.   Drainage of runoff shall not impede the movement of emergency
vehicles.



   D.   Drainage of runoff shall be a part of the design of the total
drainage system for the subdivision.



24.   Curbing.



   A.   Curb and gutter will be required when they are:



      (1)   Necessary to handle runoff;



      (2)   Necessary for the maintenance of the pavement and the
prevention of pavement edge raveling.



   B.   Curb and gutter may be eliminated along certain roadways when
drainage is provided in swales, which are designed to reduce the rate of
runoff, restore and/or supply needed water to vegetation in the street
right-of-way or as a part of phased road construction.



200.32  DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS.



1.   Blocks shall not be longer than one thousand feet between street
lines.



2.   Block design shall take into consideration convenience of access,
circulation of street traffic, orientation for solar access, limitations, and
opportunities of topography, and the zoning requirements of the City.



3.   Where blocks are over seven hundred feet in length, an easement for a
pedestrian walkway not less than ten feet wide may be required approximately
in the middle of the block.



4.   Where blocks where lots deeper than two hundred fifty feet are
proposed, a reservation for a future street through the middle of the block,
longitudinally, may be required.



200.33  DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LOTS.



1.   Size, width, depth, shape and orientation of lots may be appropriate
for the use of passive and active solar applications and for the locations,
type and use of the development; consideration should be given to locating
lots to allow buildable sites on each lot which will not encroach into the
100-year flood line.



2.   Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the applicable
zoning regulations of the governing body having jurisdiction over such lot.



3.   Lots located within the two-mile area outside the corporate limits
shall conform to the requirements of the subdivision regulations of the City
or to the County ordinances, whichever are more restrictive.  When sanitary
sewer and water facilities are not available, such lots shall be of
sufficient size to conform to all applicable State and County health
regulations.



4.   The corner where streets intersect shall be platted with a radius of
not less than fifteen feet.



5.   In all lots so far as possible, side lot lines abutting objectionable
uses shall be avoided except where their use will produce definite advantages
in accord with sound site planning and proper land use.  A planting screen
easement of at least ten feet, across which there shall be no right of
access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting objectionable uses,
such as railroads, highways, and major and secondary thoroughfare streets
when such easement is necessary to provide proper separation of residential
development from such objectionable uses.



6.   Butt lots shall be platted at least five feet wider than the average
width of the interior lots in the block; their use shall be avoided when
possible.  For the purpose of this section, a “butt lot” is defined as a
lot which is in the middle of and adjacent to two corner lots which front on
a platted street.



200.34  BUILDING LINES.



Building lines shall be shown on all lots within the platted area and shall
conform to the zoning standards, except where the subdivision land use is not
under zoning control, in which case the Commission may require building lines
in accordance with the needs of each subdivision.  The minimum building line
permitted for residential lots shall be 30 feet.



200.35  PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.



This section is enacted to insure that land is properly located and preserved
for use by the public for park and recreational purposes in accordance with
future community growth; and to further insure that the cost of providing the
park and recreational sites and facilities necessary to serve the additional
residents brought into the community through subdivision development may be
most equitably apportioned on the basis of the additional public requirements
created by such subdivision development.



1.   Park Site Dedication; Reservation or Payment In Lieu of Dedication. 
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or a site plan,
each subdivider or developer shall be required to dedicate land without cost
to the City for park and recreational purposes to serve the immediate and
future needs of the neighborhood, in accordance with the following criteria:



   A.   Criteria for Requiring Park Land Dedication.



      (1)   The amount of park land dedication shall be determined
by the following formula:



 

Residential Uses:  Minimum Lot Area Per Unit
 

Percentage of Total Land Area



25,000 square feet to 40,000 square feet or greater
 

3%



8,000 square feet to 24,999 square feet
 

5%



2,499 square feet or less to 7,999 square feet
 

10%




 



      (2)   The Ankeny comprehensive plan, as adopted by the City,
and the criteria and standards contained in the subdivision regulations shall
be used as guidelines in locating sites and determining site size.



   B.   Determination of Minimum Lot Area Requirements.  In
determining the minimum lot area that is required per unit, the lot area
requirements of the zoning district in which the plat is located shall
govern.  If the plat is located within zoning district C-1; C-2; or C-2A and
will not be used for residential purposes, no park land dedication shall be
required provided that the developer submits restrictive covenants running
with the land for a period of no less than 20 years and in a form approved by
the City Attorney warranting that the land within the plat will not be used
for residential purposes.  If the plat lies within any zoning district which
permits residential uses and in the event the developer desires to reduce the
maximum density of such development through the use of restrictive covenants,
the maximum density permitted under such covenants shall be determinative,
provided that such covenants are submitted in a form approved by the City
Attorney.



   C.   Release of Covenants.  Such covenants shall run in favor of
the City only.  In the event that, subsequent to the filing of such
covenants and approval of the final plat, the owner chooses to increase the
density of the plat in excess of that permitted in such covenants, said owner
may obtain a release of such covenant upon dedication to the City of the
amount of land which would otherwise have been dedicated under this section
or the amount of cash contribution which would have been accepted after being
credited with any amount of land or cash contribution previously dedicated or
paid.



   D.   Payment In Lieu of Park Land.  Where dedication of land is not
compatible with the general subdivision plan of the developer, the developer
may request the City to accept a cash payment in lieu of the dedication of
such land.  In this event, the developer may pay to the City a cash payment
as hereinafter determined, which shall be placed in a special fund by the
City and shall be used solely for the acquisition and/or development of park
and recreational lands to serve the residents of the City.



      (1)   Method of Payment.  The payment in lieu of land shall
be based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the development
that otherwise would have been dedicated as a park site.  The fair market
value shall be determined by the City by taking the total per-acre value of
the total development and determining the proportionate value of the
dedication of land required, as determined under paragraph A of this
subsection.  For purposes of this section, fair market value shall be
determined by the following method:



         a.   At the first meeting in January of each year the
Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint a committee of three
persons having knowledge of real estate values in the City by reason of their
occupations, such as realtors, appraisers, and persons responsible for making
loans on property.  This committee shall be referred to as the valuation
committee.



         b.   The valuation committee shall thereupon make a
study of the average per-acre value of undeveloped real estate within the
City limits, giving due consideration to sales of such real estate during the
preceding year and shall, based upon all available information, make a
determination of the average market value of all undeveloped land lying
within the City.  The committee shall thereupon make the recommendation to
the Council.



         c.   The Council shall, by resolution, thereupon
establish the average per-acre fair market value, which shall be used to
determine the basis for the cash contribution permitted under this section
until such value is changed or amended by subsequent resolution.



      (2)   Percentage Contribution.  In no event shall any
payments required under the provisions of this section be in a greater
percentage in relation to the total value of the land within the plat than
the maximum required percentage of total land area as set forth in paragraph
A of this subsection.



      (3)   Criteria for Requiring Dedication and a Payment In Lieu
of Land.  There may be situations when a combination of land dedication and
a contribution in lieu of land are both advisable.  These occasions will
arise when:



         a.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is
proposed as the location for a park site.  That portion of the land within
the subdivision falling within the park location shall be dedicated as a site
as aforesaid and a payment in lieu of land shall be accepted for any
additional land that would have to be dedicated.



         b.   A major part of the local park or recreational site
has already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site.  The remaining portions shall be required
by dedication, and a payment in lieu thereof may be accepted.



   E.   Special Fund.  All payments in lieu of park land collected by
the City shall be deposited in a special fund to be known and designated as
Special Fund for the Acquisition and Development of Park and Recreational
Facilities and such funds shall be used for such purposes and at such places
and in such manner as shall be determined and directed by the City following
recommendations by the Park Board, after consultation with the subdivider or
developer, and which shall be consistent with the intent of paragraph C of
this subsection; and authorization for creation of said fund is granted. 
Any and all interest accumulated upon such funds shall be added to the
special fund and be used only for acquisition and development of parks and
recreational areas.



   F.   Procedures.



      (1)   Pre-Application Conference for Plat or Site Plan
Submittal.  At the pre-application conference, the City, the developer and a
representative from the Park Board, if available, shall review the
requirements for park land dedication, the plan for parks as contained in the
comprehensive plan, and criteria and standards as described in the
subdivision regulations.  At the time of such conference, the Park Board
shall be immediately notified by the City Council of the description and
location of the land proposed to be platted.



      (2)   Preliminary Plat or Site Plan.  At the time of filing a
preliminary plat or site plan with the Commission, the owner or developer of
the property shall, as part of such filing, indicate whether he or she
desires to dedicate property for park and recreational purposes or whether he
or she desires to pay a fee in lieu thereof.  If the owner or developer
desires to dedicate land for this purpose, said person shall designate the
area thereof on the preliminary plat or site plan as submitted, a copy of
which shall be immediately delivered to the Park Board.



      (3)   Review and Recommendation by the Park Board.  When the
preliminary plat or site plan is received which proposes the dedication of
park land, a copy of said plat or plan shall be immediately forwarded to the
Park Board.  Upon receipt of said plat or plan, the Park Board shall review
the same and make recommendations and suggestions thereon with regard to
placement, size, design and location of said park or recreational area. 
Within fifteen days after receipt of a copy of said plat or plan, the Park
Board shall make recommendations and the same shall be forwarded to the
Council with a copy to the Commission.  Failure of the Park Board to make
recommendations within the aforesaid 15-day period shall be interpreted as
agreement with the plat or plan as submitted.



      (4)   Plan and Zoning Commission Action.  As a part of its
recommendations to the Council on the preliminary plat or preliminary site
plan, the Commission shall make recommendations on the location of the
proposed land dedication, delineating the boundaries thereof.  If the
developer requests to make a cash contribution in lieu of dedication, he or
she must so advise the Commission, which will then determine the amount of
such contribution, using the formula herein provided.



      (5)   Prerequisites for Approval of Final Plat or Site Plan. 
Where a dedication is required it shall be accomplished by providing the City
with a properly executed warranty deed, dedicating the required land to the
City without cost to the City.  Where fee in lieu of dedication is accepted,
the same shall be paid in the manner hereinafter set forth.  If the
developer chooses to make a cash contribution in lieu of land dedication, he
or she may make payment as follows:



         a.   By payment to the City Clerk, prior to approval of
the final plat.



         b.   By submitting to the Council on a form approved by
the City Attorney the covenants running with the land, suitable for
recording, and promising to pay to the City a proportionate part of such
contribution at the time of issuance of each building permit for such
subdivision.  The amount of such proportionate payment shall be determined
by dividing the total cash payment for such subdivision by the number of lots
in such subdivision.  Any payments remaining unpaid shall constitute a lien
against the real estate until paid.  A copy of such covenants shall be
placed on file with the City Engineer’s office.



      (6)   Development of Dedicated Area.  It shall be the duty of
the Park Board to properly develop and maintain the dedicated area for park
and recreational purposes.



2.   Applicability to Existing Subdivisions or Developments.  The
requirements of this section are not applicable to:  (i) existing
subdivisions or developments which are presently constructed, (ii)
developments for which building permits have been issued, or (iii) in the
case of plats or site plans where preliminary approval has been granted at
the time of enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter.  If such
building permits or plats expire prior to completion of the subdivision or
development for which it was issued or approved, renewal or reissuance of the
building permit or extension of time for the preliminary plat shall not be
deemed to bring such subdivision or development within the terms of this
section.



3.   Partial Dedication.  The percentage of park land dedication required
under paragraph 1(A) of this section shall be determined at the time of the
submission of the preliminary plat.  If the final plat submitted for
approval represents only a portion or a part of the approved preliminary plat
and does not contain within its boundaries the land dedicated to the City,
the final plat shall not be accepted until the developer shall deliver to the
City his warranty deed to the parcel of land dedicated, pursuant to the
preliminary plat; or in lieu thereof, shall submit the covenant, running with
the land, and in favor of the City only, that such parcel is reserved solely
for use as a public park and further assuring that said land will be
dedicated to the City upon approval of the final plat of which it is a
part.  Any remaining final plat submitted shall be in substantial compliance
with the approved preliminary plat.  Any land conveyed by the developer
within the approved preliminary plat shall be subject to these provisions. 
No additional land shall be required for park site purposes from the
developer upon submission of subsequent partial final plat in excess of that
which was required in the preliminary plat; provided, however, nothing in
this section shall be deemed to prevent the City and the owner, at a later
time, from altering the placement, size, design or location of the proposed
park, due to a change of circumstances since the approval of the preliminary
plat.  No changes shall be made, however, without an agreement on the part
of both the developer and the City.



4.   Title Opinion.  All warranty deeds submitted pursuant to the
requirements of this section shall be accompanied by an opinion from a
licensed attorney, certifying that the fee title to the tract is in the
owner’s name and is free and clear of encumbrances.



200.36  IMPROVEMENTS.



The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by the
subdivision regulations of the City.  All required improvements shall be
installed and constructed in accordance with approved specifications and
under the supervision of the Council and to its satisfaction.



1.   Outside Corporate Limits.  Where a subdivision outside the corporate
limits contains physical facilities necessary or desirable for the welfare of
the area and which are of common use or benefit and which the City does not
desire to or cannot maintain, provisions shall be made by the trust
agreements, made a part of the deed restrictions, acceptable to the City for
the proper and continuous maintenance and supervision of such facilities by
the lot owners in the subdivision.



2.   Flooding Protection.



   A.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into floodwaters.  Wastewater treatment
facilities shall be provided with a level of flood protection equal to or
greater than one foot above the 100-year flood elevation.



   B.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located or designed to
avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.



   C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.  Water
supply treatment facilities shall be provided with a level of protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood elevation.



200.37  UTILITIES.



1.   Underground Installation Required.



   A.   All utilities lines, except electrical lines of nominal voltage
in excess of 15,000 volts, shall be installed underground.  The subdivider
shall be responsible for making the necessary arrangements with the utility
companies for installation of such facilities.  Such utility lines shall be
installed in such a manner so as not to interfere with other underground
utilities.  Incidental appurtenances, such as transformers and their
enclosures, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes, meters and meter cabinets, may
be placed above ground but shall be located so as not to be unsightly or
hazardous to the public.  The installation of such underground utilities and
incidental appurtenances shall be in accordance with all applicable standards
and shall be approved by the City Engineer.



   B.   The Council may waive all or part of the requirements of this
section if it is determined that soil, topographical or other conditions make
such installations within the subdivision unreasonable or impractical.  If
overhead utility lines or wires are permitted, they shall be placed in the
rear of the lots in residential and commercial zoning districts.  Overhead
utility lines, when permitted in industrial districts, shall be located as
the Council direct.



2.   Flooding Protection.  Utilities such as gas and electrical systems
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the
system and the risk associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.



200.38  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.



1.   Monuments.  Monuments shall be placed at all corners and angle
points of the external boundaries of a subdivision, but no further than
one-quarter mile apart.  They shall also be placed at block corners, points
of curves, changes in direction along lot lines, and at each lot corner in
accordance with City specification.  All monuments used shall be of a type
and material approved by the Council.



2.   Sidewalks.  Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of all
streets being dedicated for public use.  The sidewalks shall be a minimum of
four feet in width and have a minimum thickness of four inches and shall be
constructed of Portland cement in accordance with designs and specifications
approved by the Council.



3.   Water Connections.  The subdivider shall provide a water connection
for each lot in accordance with standards, procedures, and supervision of the
Municipal Water Department.



4.   Sewers.



   A.   Sanitary sewer lines, storm sewers and their appurtenances
shall be constructed and installed in accordance with the plans and
specifications adopted by the Council.  Water and sewer lines shall be made
accessible to each lot.



   B.   Where sanitary sewers are not available, other facilities, as
approved by the Council, the County Health Department and the State Health
Department, must be provided for the adequate disposal of sanitary wastes.



5.   Review of Proposals and Developments to Determine Flood Hazard.  All
subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments shall be reviewed
to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding. 
If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
flood-prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that:  (i)
all such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage
within the flood-prone area, and (ii) adequate drainage is provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.



200.39  BONDS AND FEES.



1.   When Required. 



   A.   If performance bonds for improvements are submitted by the
developer, the performance bonds for all public improvements, such as water
mains and appurtenances; wastewater and storm water conveyance systems;
streets and sidewalks, shall provide corporate surety in the penal sum of
amounts equal to the cost of such improvements.  The performance bonds will
obligate the developer and/or the developer’s bondsman to construct the
improvements in accordance with the standard specifications and the approved
plans within two years for sidewalks and one year for all other improvements
from the date of filing of the bonds.



   B.   Prior to acceptance by the City of any public improvement, such
as water mains and appurtenances; wastewater and storm drains; water
conveyance systems; streets and sidewalks, there shall be submitted to the
City a bond, with corporate surety in the penal sum of an amount equal to the
costs of such improvement, obligating the contractor and/or his bondsmen to
keep such improvement in good repair for a period of not less than four years
for paving and three years for all other improvements, from the date of
acceptance, and indemnifying the City for the period against any loss or
expense to which it may be subjected as a result of defective materials,
installation or construction.



2.   Letters of Credit.  The owner or developer may submit a letter of
credit in lieu of a performance bond for sidewalk, street trees and erosion
control improvements.  Said letter of credit shall be from any approved bank
or savings and loan in a form approved by the City Attorney, which letter,
among other things, shall comply with the following requirements:



   A.   Shall run in favor, of the City;



   B.   Be in an amount determined by the director of community
development and approved by the Mayor and City Council to be sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations in compliance with the
regulations set forth in this chapter;



   C.   Be issued by any approved bank or savings and loan association
within the County;



   D.   Specify that, in the event the owner or developer fails to
complete the required improvements and installations within one year of the
date of the approval of the plat, the bank or other assuring institution,
shall pay to the City, upon demand, a sum sufficient to complete said
improvements, or the face amount thereof, whichever amount shall be the
lesser.



3.   Filing Fees.  Before a preliminary plat may be considered by the
Commission, the subdivider or agents shall pay the City a fee established by
resolution.



(Ord. 1805 – Apr. 14 Supp.)



4.   Inspection Fee.  The installation of all improvements required to be
installed within any subdivision shall be inspected by competent inspectors
furnished by the City.  The City Engineer shall determine the type of
inspections to be made and the hours needed to make such inspections.  The
actual cost, plus an overhead factor, incurred by the City shall be borne by
the developer.  The City shall keep a record of hours worked and shall bill
such developer for such services monthly.  In addition to the hourly rate
paid for inspection services by the City, the City shall include an overhead
charge.  All charges incurred for inspection services by the City, as herein
provided, shall be paid by the developer prior to acceptance of the
improvements by the City.  The City Council shall, by resolution, establish
the hourly rate to be charged for such services, which rate shall be reviewed
annually.



200.40  EXCEPTIONS, AMENDMENTS, AND PENALTIES.



1.   Variances and Modifications.



   A.   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual
topography, size or shape that the strict application of the requirements
contained in the regulations codified in this chapter would result in
substantial hardships, the Council, upon recommendation of the Commission,
may vary or modify such requirements so that the subdivider is allowed to
develop property in a reasonable manner; provided, such variance or
modification will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
the subdivision regulations for the City or of interfering with carrying out
the comprehensive plan.  In no case shall any variation or modification be
more than a minimum easing of the requirements, and in no instance shall it
conflict with any zoning ordinance and map or reduce the traffic capacity of
any street below that shown on the comprehensive plan.



   B.   Such variances and waivers may be granted only by the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the Commission.



   C.   In granting variances and modifications, the Commission may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the requirements so varied or modified.



   D.   Any variance of the underground installation requirements under
Section 200.37(1) or variance of the storm detention ordinance may be
authorized by the Council only after an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
members of the Plan and Zoning Commission.



2.   Changes and Amendments.  Any regulations or provisions in this
chapter may be changed and amended from time to time by the Council;
provided, however, such changes or amendments shall not become effective
until after a public hearing has been held, public notice of which shall have
been given in a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least fifteen
days prior to such hearing.



3.   Illegal Sale or Lease.  Any persons who dispose of or offer for sale
or lease any lots within the corporate limits before the plat thereof has
been acknowledged and recorded, as provided in this chapter, shall forfeit
and pay $50.00 for each lot and part of lot sold or disposed of, leased or
offered for sale.



CHAPTER 201
ANKENY REGIONAL AIRPORT ZONING



 

201.01  Configuration of Airport
 
201.08  Enforcement


201.02  Definitions
 
201.09  Board of Adjustment


201.03  Airport Zones
 
201.10  Appeals


201.04  Airport Zone Height Limitations
 
201.11  Judicial Review


201.05  Use Restrictions
 
201.12  Violations


201.06  Nonconforming Uses
 
201.13  City Action to Prevent Unlawful Acts


201.07  Permits
 



 



201.01  CONFIGURATION OF AIRPORT.



At the time of ordinance adoption (September 12, 1998), the regulatory
configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport was as follows:



1.   Runway 4/22 is a utility runway with a visual approach.



2.   Runway 18/36 is a runway larger than utility with a visual minimum
greater than three-fourths mile non-precision instrument approach.



201.02  DEFINITIONS.



As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms are defined:



1.   “Airport” means the Ankeny Regional Airport.



2.   “Airport Board of Adjustment” means a board consisting of five
members appointed as provided in Section 329.12, Code of Iowa.  The board
shall have the power granted by Section 329.11 and Section 329.12.



3.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point of an airport’s
usable landing area measured in feet from sea level.  The Ankeny Regional
Airport elevation is 910 feet above mean sea level.



4.   “Approach surface” means a surface longitudinally entered on the
extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation
slope set forth in Section 201.04 of this chapter.  In plan, the perimeter
of the approach surface coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.



5.   “Conical surface” means a surface extending outward and upward
from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one for
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.



6.   “Hazard to air navigation” means an obstruction determined to
have a substantial adverse affect on the safe and efficient utilization of
the navigable airspace.



7.   “Height” – For the purpose of determining the height limits in
all zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum
shall be mean sea level elevation, unless otherwise specified.



8.   “Horizontal surface” means a horizontal plane one hundred fifty
feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan
coincides with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.



9.   “Larger than utility runway” means a runway that is constructed
for and intended to be used by propeller-driven aircraft of greater than
twelve thousand five hundred pounds maximum gross weight and jet powered
aircraft.



10.   “Nonconforming use” means any pre-existing structure, object of
natural growth, or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter or an amendment thereto.



11.   “Non-precision instrument runway” means a runway having an
existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities
with only horizontal guidance, or area-type navigation equipment, for which a
straight-in non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or
planned.



12.   “Obstruction” means any structure, growth, or other object,
including mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in Section
201.04 of this chapter.



13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation,
company, association, joint stock association or government entity; includes
a trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of
them.



14.   “Precision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system
(“ILS”), or a precision approach radar (“PAR”).  It also means a
runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated
on an approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.



15.   “Primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered in a
runway.  When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary
surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; for military runways
or when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard
surface, the primary surface ends at the end of that runway.  The width of
the primary surface is set forth in Section 201.03 of this chapter.  The
elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of
the nearest point on the runway centerline.



16.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing
and take-off of aircraft along its length.



17.   “Structure” means an object, including a mobile object,
constructed or installed by man, including, but not limited to, building,
towers, cranes, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.



18.   “Transitional surfaces” means surfaces that extend outward at
ninety-degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline
extended at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from
the sides of the horizontal and conical surfaces.  Transitional surfaces for
those portions of the precision approach surfaces, which project through and
beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet
measured horizontally from the edge of the approach surface and at
ninety-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.



19.   “Tree” means any object of natural growth.



20.   “Utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for and
intended to be used by propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and less.



21.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation
of aircraft using visual approach procedures.



201.03  AIRPORT ZONES.



In order to carry out the provisions of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, there are created and established certain zones which include all of
the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces,
horizontal surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the Ankeny
Regional Airport with an ultimate runway length of 5,500 feet for Runway
18/36 and 3,860 feet for Runway 4/22 as shown on the airport layout plan. 
Such zones are shown on the Ankeny Regional Airport zoning map consisting of
one sheet, prepared by Polk County and the Polk County Aviation Authority
which is attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter and made a part
hereof.  An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height
limitation.  The various zones are established and defined as follows:



1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone.  The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250 feet
wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet
at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface.  Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.  Refer to
Section 201.01 of this chapter for the regulatory configuration of the Ankeny
Regional Airport.



2.   Utility Runway Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface
and is 500 feet wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a
width of 2,000 feet at a horizontal distance 5,000 feet from the primary
surface.  Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.



3.   Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone.  The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,500
feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface.  Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.



4.   Runway Larger Than Utility With a Visibility Minimum Greater Than
Three-fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  The inner edge
of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is
500 feet wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary
surface.  Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the
runway.  Refer to Section 201.01 of this chapter for regulatory
configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



5.   Runway Larger Than Utility With a Visibility Minimum as Low as
Three-fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  The inner edge
of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is
1,000 feet wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
4,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary
surface.  Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.



6.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone.  The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000
feet wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000
feet at a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface.  Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.



7.   Transitional Zones.  The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.  Refer to Section 201.01 of this chapter for
regulatory configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



8.   Horizontal Zone.  The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all runways designated utility or visual and
10,000 feet for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface
of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs.  The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.  Refer to Section 201.01 of this chapter for regulatory
configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



9.   Conical Zones.  The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward
therefrom, a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.  Refer to Section 201.01 of
this chapter for regulatory configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



201.04  AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.



Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height herein
established for such zone.  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
permitting any structure to exceed the Ankeny zoning ordinance district
maximum height requirement without first obtaining the appropriate
approvals.  Where such height conflict the more restrictive shall apply. 
Such applicable height limitations are established for each of the zone in
questions as follows:



1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone.  Slopes 20 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along
the extended runway centerline.  Refer to Section 201.01 of this chapter for
regulatory configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



2.   Utility Runway Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  Slopes 20
feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.



3.   Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone.  Slopes 20 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.



4.   Runway Larger Than Utility With a Visibility Minimum Greater Than
Three-fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes 34 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.  Refer to Section 201.01
of this chapter for regulatory configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



5.   Runway Larger Than Utility With a Visibility Minimum as Low as
Three-fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  Slopes 34 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.



6.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone.  Slopes 50 feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along
the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for
each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.



7.   Transitional Zone.  Slopes 7 feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface
and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the
airport elevation which is 910 feet above mean sea level.  In addition to
the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping 7 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical
surface.  Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects
beyond the conical zone, there are established height limits sloping 7 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the approach surface, and extending a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet measured at ninety-degree angles to the extended runway
centerline.  Refer to Section 201.01 of this chapter for regulatory
configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



8.   Horizontal Zone.  Established 150 feet above the airport elevation
or at a height of 1,060 feet above mean sea level.  Refer to Section 201.01
of this chapter for regulatory configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



9.   Conical Zone.  Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport
elevation.  Refer to Section 201.01 of this chapter for regulatory
configuration of the Ankeny Regional Airport.



201.05  USE RESTRICTIONS.



Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots
to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes
of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or
interfere with the landing, take-off, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to
use the airport.



201.06  NONCONFORMING USES.



1.   Regulations Not Retroactive.  The regulations prescribed in this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere
with the continuance of a nonconforming use.  Nothing contained herein shall
require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any
structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter, and is diligently prosecuted.



2.   Marking and Lighting.  Notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of
such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Polk County
Aviation Authority to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity
of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction.  Such markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the Polk
County Aviation Authority.



201.07  PERMITS.



Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction or alteration of any
structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter.



1.   Existing Use.  No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was
on the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto or than it is
when the application for a permit is made.



2.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed.  Whenever the Community
Development Director determines that a nonconforming structure is abandoned
for one year or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than sixty
percent of the replacement cost, such structure shall not be rebuilt,
restored, or reoccupied for any purpose unless it shall thereafter conform to
all regulations of this chapter.



3.   Variances.  Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of
any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the
Airport Board Of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations.  The
application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the
Federal Aviation Administration as to the affect of the proposal on the
operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of
navigable airspace.  Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found
that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and relief granted will not be
contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation,
will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of
this chapter.  Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements
of this chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of
the application has been furnished to the Airport Manager for advice as to
the aeronautical effects of the variance.  If the Airport Manager does not
respond to the application by the meeting, the Airport Board of Adjustment
may act on its own to grant or deny said application.



4.   Obstruction Marking and Lighting.  Any variance granted may, if such
action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and is
reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of
the structure or tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at the
owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary.  If deemed
proper by the Airport Board of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to
require the owner to permit the Polk County Aviation Authority, at its own
expense, to install, operate and maintain the necessary markings and lights.



201.08  ENFORCEMENT.



It is the duty of the Ankeny Community Development Department Officer to
administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein within the City
limits.  Applications for variances shall be made to the Community
Development Director upon a form established for that purpose.  Application
for action by the Airport Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted
by the Community Development Director.



201.09  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.



1.   There is created an Airport Board of Adjustment to have and exercise
the following powers:  (i) to hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Ankeny Community
Development Department office in the enforcement of this chapter; and (ii) to
hear and decide specific variances.



2.   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of members appointed by the
City and County as provided in Section 329.12, Code of Iowa.  Members shall
be removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon written charges,
after a public hearing.



3.   The Airport Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance
and in harmony with the provisions of this chapter.  Meetings of the Airport
Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
other times as the Airport Board of Adjustment may determine.  The
Chairperson or, in the absence of the Chairperson, the acting chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.  All hearings
of the Airport Board of Adjustment shall be public.  The Airport Board of
Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member upon each question; or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall immediately be filed in the Polk County Public Works
Department and the Ankeny Community Development Department office.



4.   The Airport Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact
and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decisions or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.



5.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Airport Board
of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision
or determination of the Ankeny Community Development Department office or
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter, to effect variation to this chapter.



201.10  APPEALS.



1.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Ankeny Community Development Department office made in the administration of
this chapter, may appeal to the Airport Board of Adjustment.



2.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the airport Board of Adjustment, by filing with the
Ankeny Community Development Department office a notice of appeal specifying
the grounds therefor.  The Director of Public Works or the Ankeny Community
Development Department office shall forthwith transmit to the Airport Board
of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.



3.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Ankeny Community Development Department office
certifies to the Airport Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has
been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a
stay would cause imminent peril to life or property.  In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the Airport Board of
Adjustment.



4.   The Airport Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the
parties-in-interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time.  Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.



5.   The Airport Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate
under the circumstances.



201.11  JUDICIAL REVIEW.



Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Airport Board of Adjustment, may appeal to the District Court of Iowa, as
provided in Chapters 329, 335 and 414 of the Code of Iowa.



201.12  VIOLATIONS.



Each day a violation of any provision of this chapter continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense and shall additionally constitute a
municipal infraction punishable as set out in this code.  Seeking a civil
penalty does not preclude the City or County from seeking alternative relief
including an order for abatement or injunctive relief in the same or separate
action.



201.13  CITY ACTION TO PREVENT UNLAWFUL ACTS.



In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or
land is used in violation of this chapter, the City, in addition to other
remedies shall institute any proper action or proceedings in the name of the
city to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or
abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or
lane; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about
such premises.



