
Flora, IL Code of Ordinances


Flora, Illinois
City Code




2018 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 18-2994, passed 6-18-2018





Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: www.amlegal.com




PREFACE



This city code of the city of Flora, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 18-2994, passed June 18, 2018. Ordinances of the
city adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this city code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult
the city office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.



                           American Legal
Publishing Corp.
                           Cincinnati, Ohio



ADOPTING ORDINANCE




ORDINANCE NO. 75-237





AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CITY CODE
FOR THE CITY OF FLORA, CLAY COUNTY, ILLINOIS




BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Flora, Illinois, as follows:



Section 1: That this ordinance, consisting of Chapters 1 through 10,
inclusive, is hereby adopted and enacted as the official City Code, of the
City of Flora, Illinois, and shall be treated and considered as a new and
original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede all other general and
permanent ordinances heretofore passed by the City Council, except such as by
reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in force and
effect for any purpose as provided for in Chapter 2 of said Code. Ordinances
Numbered 74-232, 75-234 which have been passed in the time between the
printing of said Code and the passage of this ordinance are not repealed.
Such repeal provided in Chapter 2 of said Code shall not be construed to
revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance.



Section 2: That any and all additions or amendments to such Code, when passed
in such form as to indicate the intention of the City Council to make the
same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in such Code so that
reference to the official City Code of the City of Flora, Illinois, or the
Flora City Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions
and amendments.



Section 3: That a copy of such Code shall be kept on file in the Office of
the City Clerk, preserved in looseleaf form. It shall be the express duty of
the City Clerk, or someone authorized by him, to insert in their designated
places all amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of the City
Council to make the same a part of such Code when the same have been printed
or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such Code all provisions which
may from time to time be repealed by the City Council. This copy of such Code
shall be available for all persons desiring to examine the same and shall be
considered the official City Code of Flora, Illinois.



Section 4: That in case of the amendment of any section of such Code for
which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in Chapter
4, Section 1-4-1 of such Code shall apply to the section as amended or in
case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the
aforementioned general penalty is provided in another section in the same
chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to
relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically
repealed therein.



Section 5: That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.



Section 6: That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval and publication as provided by law.



Section 7: That this ordinance and the Code adopted hereby shall be printed
and published in book or pamphlet form by order of the City Council.



Section 8: That this ordinance shall be published according to statutory
requirements and three copies of the Code adopted hereby shall be available
in the office of the City Clerk for examination by the public.



PASSED by the City Council of the City of Flora, Illinois, this 18th day of
February, 1975.



Published: February 19, 1975.



TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE



CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE



1-1-1: TITLE:



Upon adoption by the council this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Flora. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Flora city code, and it is
hereby published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in section 1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the city
attorney, acting for the said city council. Any reference to the number of
any section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of
the same number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the
general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself,
when reference is made to this code by title in any legal documents 1 . (1974
Code)



1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:



This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section 1-2-1 of this title 2 .
(1974 Code)



1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:



Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. (1974 Code)



1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:



In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code the
following rules shall be observed:



(A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in
order to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears
to defraud any person.



(B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any
section of this code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the
said person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the
penalty set forth. (1974 Code)



1-1-5: CODE ALTERATION:



It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so
authorized by the city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office
of the clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient
manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of
the city clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order
of the city council. (1974 Code)



 


Notes

1 
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3.

2 
Ibid.



CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE



1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:



All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special
rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances. (1974 Code)



1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:



No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or
by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1974 Code)



1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:



No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected,
applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.



This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.



Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action
now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1974 Code)



1-2-4: COLLECTION OF ATTORNEY FEES AND COURT COSTS:



In the event the city of Flora, Illinois, incurs any costs, including, but
not limited to, attorney fees and court costs, in the enforcement of any
ordinance of the city of Flora, Illinois, the city of Flora shall be entitled
to collect said fees including reasonable attorney fees and court costs for
enforcement of any said provisions. (Ord. 00-1602, 6-19-2000)



CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS



1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:



Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.



When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not
be applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto. (1974 Code)



1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:



Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:



AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.



CITY: The city of Flora, Clay County, state of Illinois.



CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this code.



EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
city of Flora".



FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.



FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year for the city runs from the first Monday of May
of each year to the first Monday of May of the succeeding year 3 .



KNOWINGLY: The word "knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts exist
which brings the act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does
not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.



LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.



MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law 4 .



NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.



NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person
or to the community.



OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.



OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.



OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Flora".



OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.



OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.



PERSON: Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include
any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other form of
association or organization 5 .



PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which
any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.



RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.



RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.



STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.



TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.



WHOLESALER: The words "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.



WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.



WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required
by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be
in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write,
by his proper mark. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.34; amd. 1974 Code)



1-3-3: CATCHLINES:



The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1974 Code)



 


Notes

3 
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2.

4 
720 ILCS 5/2-11.

5 
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2.



CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY



1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTIES:



Except as otherwise set forth herein or under any specific provision of the
city ordinances of the city of Flora, Illinois, any person convicted of a
violation of any section or provision of this code shall be guilty of a petty
offense if the violation is prosecuted by the state of Illinois.  Any person
so convicted of a petty offense under this code shall be punished by a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). The provisions of this section shall not apply to nor
affect the ordinances prosecuted under the administrative adjudication or the
code hearing departments as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-2.1-1 et seq., and 5/1-2.2-1 et seq.




Any ordinance violation under this code of the city of Flora, Illinois, which
is prosecuted under the administrative adjudication of the municipal code
violations (Title 1, Chapter 12 of the city code) or under the hearing
proceedings and enforcement of the building, housing and zoning ordinance
violations (Title 1, Chapter 11 of the city code) shall be punished by a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Any violation of a city ordinance which is a repeat of the
same ordinance within a twelve (12) month period after the filing of the
first ordinance violation shall be punished by a fine of not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and any third violation of the same ordinance within a twelve (12)
month period from the date of filing of the first violation shall result in a
fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). 





(Ord. 99-1561, 12-20-1999; amd. Ord. 10-2329, 4-19-2010)




1-4-2: LICENSE:




When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction as by the city council. (1974 Code)




1-4-3: APPLICATION:




The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code
where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which
is of a continuing nature is forbidden or declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.





In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.





Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1974 Code)




1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:




No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention
of the council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1974
Code)




1-4-5: TAXING COSTS OF POLICE, CRIMINAL CASES:



(A)   In all criminal prosecutions for offenses arising under the
provisions of this code or statutes of the state, the court shall tax as
costs against the defendant for services performed by policemen of the city
in such cases, the same costs as are allowed to be charged by statute by
sheriffs in counties of the first class under the statutes of the state of
Illinois.



(B)   In such cases, the court shall not assess costs against a defendant
where no process is served upon the defendant in making the arrest or the
defendant voluntarily appears before the court.



(C)   All costs paid by the defendant in such cases for services performed
by such policeman shall be paid to the court monthly to the treasurer of the
police pension fund of the city to be disbursed on the order of the police
pension board.



(D)   Where the case is dismissed or the defendant acquitted, no costs for
policemen's services performed in such case shall be taxed against the city 1
. (1956 Code, Sec. 24.11)



1-4-6: LIENS:



The city of Flora, Illinois, as provided herein and in other sections of the
city ordinances of the city of Flora, Illinois, shall have the ability to
place liens on real estate for the furnishing of mowing, cleanup of property,
providing utilities or otherwise. In the event the individuals or entities
who own said real estate and when said individuals or entities fail to pay
the costs associated with said services provided by the city, the city may
cause to be filed a lien in the office of the Clay County recorder against
said real estate for the furnishing of services, costs associated therewith
including attorney fees and the city may foreclose said liens pursuant to the
ordinances of the city of Flora, Illinois, as well as the statutes and any
amendments thereto of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 02-1748, 9-16-2002)



 


Notes

1 
725 ILCS 130/13.



CHAPTER 5
EXECUTIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE



1-5-1: CITY DEPARTMENTS:




The executive and administrative powers, authority and duties in the city and
of the council are distributed into and among the several departments as
follows:




Department of public affairs



Department of accounts and finances



Department of public health and safety



Department of streets and public improvements



Department of public property



The powers and duties to be performed by and through the said several
departments are determined and assigned to the said departments, and the
superintendents and officers thereof, as set forth in this chapter 1 . (1956
Code, Sec. 1.04)



1-5-2: CITY COUNCIL:



(A)   The council shall, in addition to all powers and duties already
conferred thereon, make all orders for the doing of work, or the making of
any improvement within the city, except such improvements as are authorized
to be done by the board of local improvements, pursuant to state law. It
shall make all appropriations, levy all taxes, apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, claims obligations and
liabilities of the city, and all payrolls thereof, and order the payment
thereof. It shall make or authorize the making of all contracts of the city,
either by ordinance or resolution.



(B)   All superintendents of departments and all officers thereof are
agents of the council only, and all their acts and doings shall be subject to
review and to approval or revocation by the council. Each superintendent and
officer shall make reports in writing to the council as required by law,
concerning the affairs of his particular department. In addition he may be
required by the council to make written reports from time to time concerning
the affairs in his particular department. The council may, by ordinance or
resolution, assign to a superintendent of a department, or to any other
officer or employee of the city, duties in respect to the business and
affairs of any other department, office or employment, and such service shall
be rendered without additional compensation.



(C)   The council and its members shall have and exercise all executive
and legislative powers and duties now had, possessed and exercised by the
mayor, city council, city clerk, city attorney, city treasurer, and all other
executive, legislative and administrative officers, pursuant to state law.
Nothing in this chapter shall affect any public law already in force in the
city 8 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.05)



1-5-3: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS:



(A)   The mayor shall have and exercise all the powers, and perform all
the duties provided for and prescribed by law, and the provisions of this
code, not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. The mayor is
commissioner of public affairs, and as such is superintendent of that
department and has general supervision and oversight of and over all
departments and offices of the city. He/she is the chief executive officer
and representative of the city and shall preside at the meetings of the
council.



(B)   The mayor shall sign all contracts on behalf of the city, except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. He/she has general charge of and
shall cause to be prepared and published all statements and reports required
by law or by ordinance or resolution of the council. In the absence or
inability of any commissioner to act, he/she shall exercise temporary
supervision over the department assigned to such commissioner.



(C)   The mayor has direct charge of and supervision over the police
department, and its chief and all officers and employees therein and all
property belonging thereto.



(D)   The mayor has control and supervision of the city attorney, the city
public library and reading room, the library buildings and grounds and the
trustees of the public library and reading room and of all of the employees
of the library and all property therein. He/she has control and supervision
of and shall manage the water and sewer systems, including water treatment
plant, water mains and lines and all property and facilities related thereto,
the meter department, sewage treatment plant, sewage collection system and
all property and facilities related thereto. In addition thereto, he/she
shall have and exercise power and authority over all other officers not by
law or ordinance assigned to some other department of the city and all other
officers and employees of the city which by law or ordinance are not assigned
to some other department, are assigned to the department of public affairs.
(Ord. 91-1077, 6-17-1991)



1-5-4: DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCES:



(A)   The commissioner of accounts and finances is superintendent of the
department of accounts and finances. He/she has charge of and supervision
over all accounts and records of the city, and all officers, boards and
departments of the city required by law or ordinance to keep or make
accounts, records and reports. He/she shall inspect or cause to be inspected
all records or accounts required to be kept in any of the offices or
departments of the city, and shall cause proper accounts and records to be
kept, and proper reports to be made according to law or ordinance. He/she
shall audit or cause to be audited at least once in each month the accounts
of every officer who receives and disburses money belonging to the city.



(B)   The commissioner of accounts and finances is in charge of the
purchase, care and distribution of all supplies and other articles for the
city, not otherwise provided for by law or ordinance. He/she shall examine
and report to the council upon all bills, accounts, payrolls and all other
claims against the city, before they are acted upon or allowed by the
council, unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance. He/she shall report
the result of his/her inspection of the books and accounts kept in any of the
offices or departments of the city, at least once each month, with such
recommendations as he/she shall see fit to make. He/she has charge and
supervision over all printing and stationery, books and records for the city,
unless otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 91-1077, 6-17-1991)



(C)   The commissioner of accounts and finances shall procure from all
persons and corporations operating public service utilities in the city, such
reports as they are required to make to the city or any of its officers, and
shall collect, or cause to be collected, all license fees, inspection fees,
franchise taxes, rentals and other monies, which are due to the city. He/she
shall report to the council any failure to make reports and to pay monies due
the city, with such recommendations in relation thereto as he/she may deem
proper. He/she shall, whenever the city has authority so to do, cause to be
examined the accounts and records of any person operating a public service
utility in the city, and shall report to the council any refusal to permit
any such examination, with such recommendations in relation thereto as he/she
may deem proper.



(D)   The commissioner of accounts and finances has direct charge of and
supervision over the fire department, and its chief, and all firemen,
officers and employees therein, and all property and apparatus belonging
thereto.



(E)   The commissioner of accounts and finance is vice president of the
council. In the absence of the mayor, or his/her inability to act, he/she
shall preside over the council, and perform the usual duties of the mayor and
superintendent of the department of public affairs. (Ord. 91-1077, 6-17-1991;
amd. Ord. 02-1706, 2-19-2002)



1-5-5: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY:



(A)   The commissioner of public health and safety is superintendent of
the department of public health and safety and shall constitute the board of
health of the city. He/she has charge of and supervision over the landfill,
the removal and disposition of garbage and all the employees and property
related thereto.



(B)   The commissioner of public health and safety has charge of and
supervision over all parks and places of amusement, and like places belonging
to the public; over auctions and auctioneers; of matters relating to
nuisances and the enforcement of all code provisions related thereto; the
regulation of animals and the enforcement of all laws and code provisions
relating thereto. He/she has charge of the collection of the annual city tax
on dogs.



(C)   The commissioner of public health and safety has direct charge of
and supervision over the Charley Brown memorial park.



(D)   The commissioner of public health and safety has direct charge of
and supervision over the city recreation department and all employees and
property related thereto.



(E)   The commissioner of public health and safety has charge of and
supervision over the city cemetery and the grounds and improvements related
thereto. (Ord. 91-1077, 6-17-1991)



1-5-6: DEPARTMENT OF STREETS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:



(A)   The commissioner of streets and public improvements is
superintendent of the department of streets and public improvements. He/she
has charge of and supervision over all public work, cleaning, sprinkling and
repairing of the streets, alleys and public places, the erection, making and
reconstruction of all street improvements, paving, curbing, sidewalks,
sewers, bridges, viaducts and all public improvements, and the repair
thereto, unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance. He/she has charge of
and control over the use of the streets and alleys by public service
corporations having any franchise and operating within the city, and shall
see to it that such corporations observe the provisions of their franchises,
and shall report to the council or other proper officers any failure to
render service, or to observe the requirements or conditions of the franchise
under which such public service utility is operated.



(B)   The commissioner of streets and public improvements has charge of
the enforcement of all code provisions relative to the protection of traffic
on and across railroad lines and on streets and alleys. (Ord. 91-1077,
6-17-1991)



1-5-7: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:




The commissioner of public property is superintendent of the department of
public property. He/she has charge of and supervision over the city hall and
all property of the city in connection therewith. He/she has charge of and
supervision over all the public grounds of the city and the buildings and
improvements thereon, except the public grounds, buildings, improvements and
property which are otherwise provided for by law or ordinance. He/she has
control and supervision of and shall manage the natural gas distribution
system and electric system of the city, including all employees related
thereto and all lands, rights of way, gas mains, gas lines, electric lines,
poles and all other gas and electric facilities related thereto. He/she has
control, management and supervision of the lighting of the streets, alleys
and public grounds and buildings and all lamps, lights and lighting
materials. (Ord. 91-1077, 6-17-1991)




1-5-8: POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENTS:




Except as otherwise provided by law or provisions of this code, the
superintendent of each department shall make and enforce such rules and
regulations as are necessary for the efficient conduct of the business of
that department and the service thereof. The council shall adopt rules
governing its order of business, and prescribing the manner in which
legislation shall be considered, which rules and order of business shall not
be inconsistent with law, or the provisions of this code. (1956 Code, Sec.
1.11)




1-5-9: MEETINGS OF COUNCIL:



(A)   Regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and third
Monday of each month at four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. The place of such
meetings shall be held in the city hall building located at 131 East Second
Street, Flora, IL 62839. If such date is a legal holiday, the meeting shall
be held on the next business day at the same time and place unless otherwise
provided by the council.



(B)   Electronic attendance at meetings:  Any member of the city council
may attend any open or closed meeting of the city council via electronic
means (such as by telephone, video or internet connection) provided that such
attendance is in compliance with the following rules and any applicable laws.



1.   Prerequisites:  A member of the city council may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions:



   (a)   The member shall notify the city clerk at least six (6) hours
before the meeting unless impractical, so that necessary communications
equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical
arrangements will result in denial of a request for remote attendance.



   (b)   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why
he or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:



      (1)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or



      (2)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes
or the business of the city council; or



      (3)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other
emergency.



2.   Authorization to participate:



   (a)   The city clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance
request, shall inform the city council of the request for electronic
attendance.



   (b)   After establishing that there is a quorum physically present
at a meeting where a member of the city council desires to attend
electronically, the presiding officer shall state that (i) a notice was
received by a member of the city council in accordance with these rules, and
(ii) the member will be deemed authorized to attend the meeting
electronically unless a motion objecting to the member's electronic
attendance is made, seconded, and approved by two-thirds of the members of
the city council physically present at the meeting. If no such motion is made
and seconded or if any such motion fails to achieve the required vote by the
members of the city council physically present at the meeting, then the
request by the member to attend the meeting electronically shall be deemed
approved by the city council and the presiding officer shall declare the
requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding officer,
the question of a member's electronic attendance may not be reconsidered. In
the event the absent member of the council who is attending by electronic
means is the mayor, then the presiding officer of the city council shall be
the commissioner of finances, or other official as determined by ordinances
or state statute, and shall be the presiding officer during the mayor's
absence even though the mayor may be attending electronically.



3.   Adequate equipment required: The member participating electronically
and other members of the city council must be able to communicate
effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at
any meeting, the city council shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish
this objective at the meeting site.



4.   Minutes: Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if
the member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and
state specifically whether each member is physically present or present by
electronic means.



5.   Rights of remote member: A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and
participate in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject
to all general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and
adhered to. The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered,
and counted as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member
attending electronically shall be called during any vote taken, and his or
her vote counted and recorded by the city clerk and placed in the minutes for
the corresponding meeting. A member attending electronically may leave a
meeting and return as in the case of any member, provided the member
attending electronically shall announce his or her leaving and returning.



6.   Committees, boards and commissions: These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the city
council of the city of Flora, Illinois either presently existing or
established in the future.



(C)   Order of business and conduct of meetings:



1.   At any regular meeting of the city council, the meeting shall proceed
to transact the business before it in the following order, unless the same
may be temporarily suspended by a majority vote of the city council:



   (a)   Call to order;



   (b)   Roll call of members;



   (c)   Pledge of allegiance;



   (d)   Invocation;



   (e)   Citizens request to address council;



   (f)   Approval of agenda;



   (g)   Approval of minutes;



   (h)   Approval of consent agenda which may include the prior minutes
of meetings of council, schedule of bills, treasurer's report or other
business which has been previously approved or enacted by the council but
merely waiting formal documentation;



   (i)   Regular business which includes comments, statements and
reports by the mayor, commissioners, city administrator, economic development
director, director of public works, superintendent of public services, the
zoning and building official, chief of police, city attorney, city treasurer
and city clerk;



   (j)   Consideration of any ordinance, resolutions or other
documentation that is presented by the mayor, council members or city staff.



   (k)   Closed sessions as the same are available pursuant to the
Illinois State Statutes regarding the Open Meetings Act.



2.   The presiding officer shall call the meeting to order and proceed in
the manner described hereinabove. The mayor shall act as the presiding
officer at all such meetings. In the event of the absence of the mayor, the
mayor pro tern shall be the commissioner of finance.



3.   In order to facilitate the orderly conduct of business, an agenda
shall be prepared for each regular or special meeting of the city council by
the city clerk and the same shall be approved prior to presentment to the
council members by the mayor or the city administrator. All agendas shall be
distributed pursuant to the statutes of the state of Illinois at least
forty-eight (48) hours prior to any council meeting and submitted to any
organization requesting copies thereof and posted in the city hall of the
city of Flora, Illinois.



4.   When petitions or written communications directed to the council
concerning proposed business are received from the public such items shall be
included hereinabove under citizens request to address council. In such
instances, the mayor, or the mayor pro tem in absence of the mayor, shall
instruct the person or persons that said individual may provide a brief
verbal explanation of the item and then shall direct the individual that they
may file the petition or other written communication with the city clerk who
shall accept the item on behalf of the city council and shall record receipt
of the item in records of proceedings of the meeting.



5.   Any individual may speak before the City Council at a meeting thereof
after being recognized by the Mayor or Mayor Pro tem during the “Citizens
Request to Address Council” portion of said meeting as long as the
communication is conducted in a peaceful and respectful manner.



6.   All such presentations by individuals shall be limited to three (3)
minutes. Said time may be extended by the consent of a majority of the
council.



7.   No person shall interrupt, disturb or disrupt any regular or special
meeting of the city council. Upon direction of the mayor or mayor pro tem in
absence of the mayor, any such person shall be asked to leave the council
chambers and the city hall. If said individual or groups of individuals
persist in disrupting the council proceedings the mayor or mayor pro tem in
absence of the mayor may direct the city police department to escort said
individuals from the meeting and building.




(Ord. 03-1814, 10-20-2003, eff. 11-3-2003; amd. Ord. 07-2039, 1-22-2007; amd.
Ord. 11-2418, 5-2- 2011; amd. Ord. 18-2991, 6-18-2018)




1-5-10: CITY OFFICERS:




There are created the following officers which shall be elected or appointed
by the city council: city administrator, city attorney, city clerk, city
treasurer, deputy city clerk, deputy city collector, chief of police and
assistant chief of police.





(Ord. 03-1773, 3-3-2003; amd. Ord. 07-2035, 1-22-2007)




1-5-11: OATH OF OFFICERS:



All officers, before entering upon their duties, shall take and subscribe the
following oath or affirmation: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case
may be), that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties of the office of                                
  , according to the best of my ability." The oath shall be filed in the
office of the city clerk 9 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.15)



1-5-12: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



1-5-13: WARRANT OF OFFICE:



All officers elected or appointed, except the city clerk, commissioners and
the mayor shall be commissioned by warrant under the corporate seal, signed
by the city clerk and the mayor or presiding officer of the council. The
mayor shall issue a certificate of election or appointment, under the seal of
the corporation, to the city clerk. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.17)



1-5-14: ELIGIBILITY TO CITY OFFICE 11 :



(Rep. by Ord. 99-1558, 12-20-1999)



1-5-15: DUTY ON TERMINATION OF OFFICE:



Any person, having been an officer of the city, who shall fail, within five
(5) days after notice and request, to deliver over to his successor in office
all books, property, papers and effects in his possession, belonging to the
city or pertaining to his office, shall be liable for all damages caused
thereby and to a penalty as set forth by the council. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.19)



1-5-16: MAYOR:



(A)   Powers Of Arrest: The mayor, commissioners, the chief of police and
all policemen are conservators of the peace, and have power to arrest or
cause to be arrested, with or without process, all persons who break the
peace, or are found violating any code provision, or any criminal law of this
state; and to commit arrested persons for examination, and, if necessary, to
detain an arrested person in custody overnight or Sunday, in the city jail or
other suitable place, until he can be brought to trial before the proper
officer. All warrants for the violation of this code, or the state law, to
whomsoever directed, may be served or executed within the city by any
policeman of the city, to whom all the powers of a sheriff in such case are
hereby given. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.20)



(B)   Mayor May Release Imprisoned Person: The mayor may release any
person imprisoned for violation of any code provision, and shall report the
release, with the reasons therefor, to the council at its first session
thereafter. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.21)



(C)   Mayor To Enforce Order: The mayor shall exercise, within the city
limits, the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder and keep the
peace. He shall perform such duties as are or may be prescribed by law, or by
city code provision, and shall take care that the laws and code provisions
are faithfully executed. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.22)



(D)   Mayor May Call Militia: When necessary, the mayor may call on every
male inhabitant of the city over the age of eighteen (18) years to aid in
enforcing laws and city code provisions. Subject to the authority of the
governor or commander in chief of the militia, the mayor may call out the
militia to aid in suppressing riots and other disorderly conduct, or to aid
in carrying into effect any law or code provision 12 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.23)



1-5-17: ADMINISTER OATHS:



The mayor and the city clerk have the power to administer oaths and
affirmations upon all lawful occasions. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.24)



1-5-18: CHIEF OF POLICE:



The chief of police possesses all the powers of a sheriff under the laws of
this state. He shall enforce the police regulations of this code, and shall
make, or cause to be made, arrests of all persons committing breaches of the
peace, disturbing the peace and quiet of the city, obstructing the streets
and alleys of the city, injuring property of the city, or committing any
nuisance, or otherwise violating any provisions of this code. He shall serve
all writs placed in his hands, and any notice, when required by any officer
of the city. Subject to the control of the mayor he shall direct the police
forces of the city, and shall perform such other duties as may be required of
him by ordinance or resolution of the council 13 . (Ord. 782, 10-21-1963)



1-5-18-1: ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE:



(A)   The city council of the city does hereby establish the position of
assistant chief of police.



(B)   The position of assistant chief of police shall be appointed by the
city council by majority vote of said council. (Ord. 83-598, 4-4-1983)



1-5-19: CITY COLLECTOR:



(A)   The city collector shall collect all special assessments and execute
all warrants for the collection thereof, and shall keep such books of account
in such manner as the council may prescribe. He shall pay over to the city
treasurer all money collected by him as required by law, and shall perform
all duties that are now, or may hereafter be required of him by law.



(B)   The city collector shall collect all monies due and payable to the
city for electricity, water, gas and sewer service, and for all services in
connection therewith. He shall, at the time of payment for such services,
give to the person paying the same, a receipt in writing stating the amount
paid, the date paid and for what service paid 14 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.27)



(C)   The deputy city collector shall have the same powers and duties of
the city collector as set forth in this section. The powers and duties herein
described shall be exercised by such deputy city collector only in the
absence of the city collector from his office in the city hall for a period
of time exceeding one working day, and only when either written direction has
been given by the city collector to exercise such power or the city council
has determined by resolution that the city collector is temporarily or
permanently incapacitated to perform such function. When signing any
documents, the deputy city collector shall sign the name of the city
collector followed by the word "By" and the deputy city collector's own name
and the words "Deputy City Collector". (Ord. 76-304, 3-16-1976)



1-5-20: CITY TREASURER:



(A)   The city treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the city,
and shall keep in his books a clear, orderly and systematic account of all
receipts and disbursements, keeping a separate account of each fund or
appropriation, and of the debits and credits belonging thereto. He shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and upon what account paid, and shall file copies of
these receipts with the city clerk with his monthly report.



(B)   At the end of each month, the city treasurer shall render an account
to the city clerk, under oath, showing the state of the treasury and the
balance of money on hand at such time. He shall accompany such account with a
statement of all money received into the treasury, and on what account,
together with all warrants paid by him, which warrants shall be delivered to
the city clerk and filed with the account in the clerk's office. He shall
return all warrants paid by him, marked "paid". He shall keep a register of
all warrants, and in separate columns shall note the date, amount and number
of such warrants, when paid, the fund from which the same are paid, and to
whom they are paid. All warrants shall be paid from the funds against which
they may be drawn, in the order of their presentation for registry. (1956
Code, Sec. 1.28)



(C)   The city treasurer shall, annually, prior to the first day of
September of each year, make out and file with the city clerk a full and
detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of the city, and of all his
transactions as treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and shall show
therein the state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year. The city
clerk shall immediately publish the account in a newspaper published in the
city 1 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.27)



(D)   The city treasurer shall act as advisor to the city of Flora police
pension board as to all financial matters which may come before said board.
(Ord. 06-1977, 2-21-2006)



1-5-21: ALLOCATIONS TO AND FROM SPECIAL FUNDS:



(A)   All warrants drawn upon the city treasurer shall state the
particular fund or appropriation to which the same is chargeable, and the
person to whom the same is payable, and shall be signed by the mayor and
countersigned by the city clerk.



(B)   All monies received on any special assessment shall be held as a
special fund for the purpose for which the assessment was made, and shall not
be otherwise used, except to reimburse the city for monies already expended
by it on that account. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.29)



1-5-22: CITY CLERK:



(A)   The city clerk shall keep the corporate seal of the city, and all
papers and records belonging to the city. He shall attend all meetings of the
council, and keep a full record of its proceedings in the journal. Copies of
all papers filed in his office, and transcripts from the journals and other
records and files of his office, certified by him, under the corporate seal,
shall be evidence in all courts in like manner as if the originals were
produced.



(B)   The city clerk shall record, in a book to be kept for that purpose,
all ordinances passed by the council, and at the foot of each ordinance, he
shall make a memorandum of the date of the passage and of the publication of
the same; which record and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be
prima facie evidence of the passage and legal publication of such ordinance
for all purposes whatever. The city clerk shall keep full indexes to the
journal and book of ordinances 16 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.30)



(C)   The deputy city clerk shall have the same powers and duties of the
city clerk as set forth in this section. The powers and duties herein
described shall be exercised by such deputy city clerk only in the absence of
the city clerk from his office in the city hall for a period of time
exceeding one working day, and only when either written direction has been
given by the city clerk to exercise such power or the city council has
determined by resolution that the city clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such function. When signing any documents, the
deputy city clerk shall sign the name of the city clerk followed by the word
"By" and the deputy city clerk's own name and the words "Deputy City Clerk".



(D)   The city clerk shall serve as the freedom of information act officer
on behalf of the city of Flora. 



(Ord. 76-304, 3-16-1976; amd. Ord. 09-2300, 11-2-2009)



1-5-23: BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS:



The board of local improvements of the city consists of the mayor and all of
the commissioners 17 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.32)



1-5-24: ACCOUNTS AND CLAIMS AGAINST CITY:



(A)   All accounts against the city shall be presented in writing, at
least two (2) days before the meeting of the council at which they are to be
considered. All accounts, whether for labor or materials, shall be made out
in detail, so as to show each particular item, with the date of its
performance, or when furnished, and shall contain a certificate that the same
is correct, due and unpaid. No claim against the city shall be allowed unless
it appears to be due by virtue of some contract with the city, or under some
ordinance of the city. An account shall not be allowed, if not presented in
time, except by unanimous consent.



(B)   When any claim has been allowed against the city, the city clerk
shall issue a warrant on the city treasurer for the amount so allowed,
showing when the same was allowed, and the fund against which the same is
drawn. Such warrant shall be countersigned by the mayor. The city clerk shall
keep an accurate account of the warrants so drawn, and of the date, number,
payee and amount of each, and shall note the date of the issuance of each
warrant in the journal of the council, opposite the entry of the allowance of
such claim 18 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.33)



1-5-25: INVEST, REINVEST FUNDS:



(A)   The commissioner of finance and the treasurer jointly are hereby
authorized and directed to invest and to reinvest all city funds required by
statute to be invested in such manner as to comply with said statute, and any
and all amendments thereto hereafter made.



(B)   The commissioner of finance and treasurer are hereby further
directed upon making each investment to prepare a written report of such
investment giving the fund invested, the type of investment, date when made,
the rate of interest, the place of investment and any other pertinent
information concerning the terms of investment. Said report shall be
presented to the next regular meeting of the council following the date of
investment for approval and ratification or direction to change the
investment if disapproved 19 . (Ord. 72-153, 12-4-1972)



1-5-26: ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:



The council does hereby elect that the city shall participate in the Illinois
municipal retirement fund, effective January 1, 1966 20 . (Ord. 65-9,
11-15-1965)



1-5-27: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO RESIDE WITHIN CITY LIMITS:



(A)   All personnel presently employed and hereafter employed by the city
of Flora, Illinois, must be bona fide residents of the city of Flora,
Illinois, except at the time of employment when said employee need not be a
resident of the city of Flora, Illinois, but shall establish a residence and
maintain the same in the city of Flora, Illinois, within ninety (90) days
after being employed. This provision concerning residence shall apply not
only to employees but also to those persons who the city council elects or
appoints to office, including, but not limited to, the city administrator,
city attorney, city collector, city clerk, city treasurer, deputy city clerk,
deputy city collector, chief of police and assistant chief of police. (Ord.
99-1558, 12-20-1999)



(B)   Personnel shall maintain an up to date record of residence address
with the city clerk. (Ord. 77-345, 6-20-1977)



1-5-28: RETURNED CHECKS, FEE:



The city is hereby authorized to charge a penalty fee in the amount of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for each check given to the city that is returned to
the city without payment.



Said twenty five dollar ($25.00) penalty fee is in addition to any other
penalty that may be imposed in regard to late payment of utilities or any
other bill that may be due the city.



The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to charge such penalty fee
for each and every check that has been returned without payment to the city.
(Ord. 93-1167, 6-7-1993)



1-5-29: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:



(A)   Office Created And Established: The office of city administrator be
and the same is hereby created and established.



(B)   Duties: The duties of the city administrator shall be as follows:



1. He shall be responsible for the administration of all of the affairs of
the city.



2. He shall see that the laws of Illinois and the ordinances of the city are
enforced.



3. He shall appoint and remove the principal officers, all subordinate
officers and employees of the city, with the advice and consent of the city
council. All such appointments shall be made by the city administrator upon
the basis of merit and fitness alone.



4. He shall be responsible for the conduct of the city offices and the
discipline of all appointive officers of the city. He may, without notice,
cause the affairs of any office or the conduct of any officer or employee of
the city to be examined. He may require such reports from the administrative
officers of the city respecting their several offices as shall tend to
improve the discharge of their several duties and as shall enable him to
discharge his duties in the most efficient manner.



5. He shall be responsible for the preparation of the annual budget and
submission of the same to the governing body and shall keep it fully advised
as to the financial condition and the needs of the city.



6. He shall have a seat, but not vote, in all the public meetings of the
governing body and may make recommendations to the city council on all
matters respecting the discharge of his duties.



7. He shall perform such other and further duties as may be required by law
or any ordinance.



(C)   Appointment: The city administrator shall be appointed by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council. (Ord. 87-883, 12-7-1987)



1-5-30: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:



1-5-30-1: DEFINITIONS:



For purposes of this section 1-5-30, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:



CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any
individual to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a
political organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of
presidential or vice presidential electors, but does not include activities:
a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are
otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.



CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to
fill a vacancy in nomination, or who remains eligible for placement on the
ballot at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code
1 .



COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .



COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed
as a condition of his or her employment, but for the purposes of this section
1-5-30, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the
officer or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of
location.



COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.



CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the election code 3 .



EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the city of Flora, Illinois, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject
to the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material
details of how the work is to be performed, but does not include an
independent contractor.



EMPLOYER: The city of Flora.



GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position
of an officer or employee.



LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and
c) health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.



OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless or whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.



POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does include
activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining,
or c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.



POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a
statement of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk
under section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the state board of elections or a county
clerk.



PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: (A) Preparing for, organizing, or
participating in any political meeting, political rally, political
demonstration, or other political event.



(B) Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase of,
selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.



(C) Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.



(D) Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.



(E) Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in an
election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign for
elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.



(F) Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any
referendum question.



(G) Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping
in an effort to get voters to the polls.



(H) Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or filing
any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.



(I) Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.



(J) Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.



(K) Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign literature,
campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any candidate for
elective office or for or against any referendum question.



(L) Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.



(M) Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.



(N) Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.



(O) Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any election.



PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:



(A) Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee;



(B) Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with an
employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;



(C) Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or



(D) Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord.
04-1843, 5-3-2004)



1-5-30-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:



(A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No
officer or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the
city of Flora in connection with any prohibited political activity.



(B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).



(C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued
employment or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded
additional compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her
participation in any prohibited political activity.



(D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible
for an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official
duties, or activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a
voluntary basis which are not prohibited by this section.



(E)   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognize
merit principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for
which is paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the
federal standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable
to grant in aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure
solely because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee,
of a political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 04-1843,
5-3-2004)



1-5-30-3: GIFT BAN:



(A)   Acceptance Or Solicitation Of Gifts: Except as permitted by this
section, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
"recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
"prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by
law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a
gift that violates this section.



(B)   Exceptions: Subsection (A) of this section is not applicable to the
following:



1. Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.



2. Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.



3. Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code or b)
activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.



4. Educational materials and missions.



5. Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.



6. A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual as
father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather,
grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson,
stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and
including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the individual's
spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.



7. Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal friendship
unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the circumstances, the
gift was provided because of the official position or employment of the
recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and not because of
the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is provided on the
basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the circumstances
under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the relationship
between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the gift,
including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the
same or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or
immediate family members.



8. Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased
or prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered
by any means.



9. Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits resulting
from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities that
are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if the
benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.



10. Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of this
act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or employee
from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means any gift
given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.



11. Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.



12. Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any calendar year
having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).



Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.



(C)   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or
an immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not
violate this section 1-5-30 if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action
to return a gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or
an amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from
income taxation under section 501 (c)(3) of the internal revenue code of
1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 04-1843,
5-3-2004)



1-5-30-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:



(A)   The mayor of the city of Flora, Illinois, with the advice and
consent of the city council shall designate an ethics advisor for the city of
Flora, Illinois. The duties of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an
officer or employee of the city of Flora, Illinois.



(B)   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the city of Flora, Illinois, concerning the interpretation of
and compliance with the provisions of this section 1-5-30 and state ethics
laws. The ethics advisor shall perform such other duties as may be delegated
by the city council of the city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 04-1843, 5-3-2004)



1-5-30-5: ETHICS COMMISSION:



(A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the city of Flora, Illinois. The commission shall be comprised
of three (3) members appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of
the city council. No person shall be appointed as a member of the commission
who is related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first
cousin, to any elected officer of the city of Flora, Illinois.



(B)   At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.



At the first meeting of the commissioners, the commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2)
commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.



(C)   The mayor of the city of Flora, Illinois, with the advice and
consent of the city council, may remove a commissioner in case of
incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office after service on the
commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the
written charges against the commissioner and after providing an opportunity
to be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.



(D)   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:



1. To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its duties
and the exercise of its powers.



2. Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to investigate,
conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for disciplinary
actions, impose fines in accordance with subsection 1-5-30-6(C) of this
chapter and refer violations of section 1-5-30-2 or 1-5-30-3 of this chapter
to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The commission shall, however,
act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation of this
section 1-5-30 and not upon its own prerogative.



3. To receive information from the public pertaining to its investigations
and to require additional information and documents from persons who may have
violated the provisions of this section 1-5-30.



4. To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production of
books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the city of Flora, Illinois, to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.



5. The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters clearly
within the purview of this section 1-5-30.



(E)   1. Complaints alleging a violation of this section 1-5-30 shall be
filed with the ethics commission.



2. Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice
to the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a
copy of the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return
receipt requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the
complainant within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission.
The notices to the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of
the date, time, and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the
complaint and to establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.



3. Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the commission
shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint
is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this section 1-5-30, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commissioners' ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.



If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-5-30-3 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then
the commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the
complaint be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not
sufficient to allege a violation or if there is no determination of probable
cause, then the commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint,
and that notice shall be made public.



If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-5-30-2 of this chapter, then the commission shall notify in writing the
attorney designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions
and shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents
in the custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.



4. On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours' public
notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony
and evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by
the open meetings act.



5. Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing is concluded, the
commission shall either: a) dismiss the complaint or b) issue a
recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the mayor and
city council, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular
findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed
shall be matter of public information.



6. If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a written
demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business days
after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties
the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the mayor and city council or impose a fine upon the
violator, or both.



7. If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission shall
render its decision as required under subsection (E)5 of this section within
seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7) days
preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before the
date of that election, if possible.



8. The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section 1-5-30-3 of this chapter in an amount not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00). The commission may fine any person who knowingly files a
frivolous complaint alleging a violation of this section 1-5-30 in an amount
of not less than one thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission may recommend any appropriate
discipline up to and including discharge.



9. A complaint alleging the violation of this act must be filed within one
year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 04-1843, 5-3-2004)



1-5-30-6: PENALTIES:



(A)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-5-30-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a
penal institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than
three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to
exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).



(B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-5-30-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than
one thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).



(C)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of this section 1-5-30 to the local enforcement
authorities, the state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may
be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364)
days and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00).



(D)   A violation of section 1-5-30-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted
as a criminal offense by an attorney for the city of Flora, Illinois, or by
the state's attorney by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform
to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.



A violation of section 1-5-30-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a
quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the city of Flora, Illinois, or, if
an ethics commission has been created, by the commission through the
designated administrative procedure.



(E)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section 1-5-30-2 or 1-5-30-3 of this chapter is subject to
discipline or discharge. (Ord. 04-1843, 5-3-2004)



 


Notes

1 
65 ILCS 5/4-5-2.

8 
65 ILCS 5/4-5-1, 5/4-5-2.

9 
65 ILCS 5/4-4-1.

11 
See section 1-5-27 of this chapter.

12 
65 ILCS 5/4-3-4, 5/4-5-1, 5/4-5-3, 5/3-11-14.

13 
65 ILCS 5/4-5-6, 5/4-5-7; see also section 2-3-4 of this code.

14 
65 ILCS 5/4-5-4, 5/3-11-25.

1 
65 ILCS 5/4-5-4, 5/3-10-5.1.

16 
65 ILCS 5/4-5-4, 5/3-10-7, 5/3-10-8.

17 
65 ILCS 5/9-2-7.

18 
65 ILCS 5/8-1-8 et seq.

19 
50 ILCS 340/1.

20 
40 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.

1 
10 ILCS 5/1-3.

2 
5 ILCS 315/3.

3 
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.

4 
10 ILCS 5/9-3.



CHAPTER 6
NAME AND SEAL



1-6-1: NAME AND SEAL:



(A)   The city shall be known by the name of the city of Flora.



(B)   The seal of the city shall be in circular form, with the words
"Organized April 15, 1884", in the margin, and the words "City of Flora", in
the center 28 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.01)



 


Notes

28 
65 ILCS 5/2-2-12.



CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS; PRECINCTS



1-7-1: VOTING PRECINCTS:




Voting precincts within the city of Flora, Illinois, shall be determined by
the county clerk of Clay County, Illinois, pursuant to the statutes of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 04-1851, 6-7-2004)




1-7-2: VOTING IN PROPER PRECINCT:




No person shall be permitted to vote at any general, special or primary
election except in the precinct in which he resides. (Ord. 71-97, 1-18-1971;
amd. 1974 Code)




1-7-3: JUDGES:




The compensation and number of election judges for a municipal election shall
be determined by the county clerk of Clay County, Illinois, pursuant to the
statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 04-1851, 6-7-2004)




CHAPTER 8
SALARIES



1-8-1: SALARIES OF CITY OFFICIALS:



The annual salaries of the elected officials, subject to the constitutional
prohibitions of changing salaries of elected officials during the incumbents'
term, shall be as follows:




Mayor   $8,000.00





Commissioner   6,000.00




The aforedescribed salaries shall not take effect until after the municipal
elections in the year 1999, being the expiration of the existing term of the
present mayor and city commissioners. All salaries of the current mayor and
current city commissioners, as of the date of passage of this ordinance,
shall not be raised during the remainder of their respective current term.



All salaries of other municipal officers and employees and all appointed
members of any boards shall be set forth in the annual appropriation and
budget ordinances of the city.



All city officers and employees shall receive fringe benefits in accordance
with official rules of the city. (Ord. 96-1274, 1-15-1996)



1-8-2: TRAVEL EXPENSES:



Travel expenses on behalf of the city of Flora, Illinois, for official city
business, special education, seminars, training, or other, by any elected
official, city officer, employee and eligible guests shall be submitted to
the city administrator for approval or disapproval prior to incurring said
expenses for any sums not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). For any
sums exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), said request must be submitted
to the city council for approval.



Reimbursement for any of the expenses set forth hereinabove shall only be
reimbursed upon submittal of an itemized statement of all expenses with
receipts for cash disbursements within thirty (30) days after incurring said
expense.



Travel expenses or other costs associated therewith shall be limited to the
city official, employee, or eligible guests and shall include costs of
transportation, food and lodging for the elected official, officer or
employee. (Ord. 00-1563, 1-3-2000)



1-8-3: PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:



Applicants seeking employment shall complete a standard application form as
provided by the city and shall pass a complete physical examination to be
given by a physician chosen by the city before starting work. A report of the
physician's findings shall be on a form provided by the city. The physician's
examination fee shall be paid for by the city. The report of the physician
shall be presented to the council for its consideration prior to the hiring
of such applicant. This provision shall not apply to those employees hired as
temporary summer help or for a period of less than ten (10) working days.
(Ord. 75-253, 4-21-1975)



CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL REVENUE BONDS



1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:



Whenever used in this chapter unless a different meaning clearly appears from
the context:



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: Any land, interest in land, building,
structure, facility, system, fixture, improvement, addition, appurtenance,
machinery or equipment or any combination thereof, and all real and personal
property deemed necessary in connection therewith, for use by any person,
provided that the existence of such economic development project will create
or retain employment opportunities in the municipality.



MUNICIPALITY: The city of Flora, Clay County, Illinois.



PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation (including public utilities), association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency, or any other legal
entity, or its legal representative, agent or assigns.



POLLUTION: Any form of environmental pollution including, but not limited to,
water pollution, air pollution, land pollution, solid waste pollution,
thermal pollution, radiation contamination, or noise pollution as determined
by the various standards prescribed by this state, the federal government or
other governmental entities and including, but not limited to, anything which
is considered as pollution or environmental damage in the environmental
protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 through 5/51, and any
amendment thereto and substitution therefor.



POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any land, interest in land, building, structure,
facility, system, fixture, improvement, appurtenance, addition, machinery or
equipment, or any combination thereof, and all real and personal property
deemed necessary therewith, having to do with or the end purpose of which is,
reducing, controlling or preventing pollution.



PROJECT: Any economic development project or pollution control facility or
any combination thereof.



PROJECT COSTS: Means and includes the sum total of all reasonable or
necessary costs incidental to the acquisition, construction, reconstruction,
repair, alteration, improvement and extension of a project including, without
limitation, the cost of studies and surveys; plans, specifications,
architectural and engineering services; legal, marketing or other special
services; financing, acquisition, demolition, construction, equipment and
site development of new and rehabilitated buildings, rehabilitation,
reconstruction, repair or remodeling of existing buildings and all other
necessary and incidental expenses including an initial bond and interest
reserve together with interest on bonds issued to finance a project to a date
six (6) months subsequent to the estimated date of completion. (Ord. 76-292,
1-5-1976)



1-9-2: LEGISLATIVE DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:



It is hereby determined and declared that the purpose of this chapter is to
provide a financing device which will aid in financing the cost of projects
in order to relieve conditions of unemployment and to encourage the increase
of industry within the municipality, thereby reducing the evils attendant
upon unemployment and to provide for the increased welfare and prosperity of
the residents of the municipality; it is hereby further determined and
declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide a financing device
which will aid in financing the cost of pollution control facilities in order
to eliminate, abate or reduce the serious dangers to the public health and
welfare caused by environmental pollution; and the same are hereby declared
and determined to be public purposes and functions pertaining to the
government and affairs of the municipality. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-3: ADDITIONAL POWERS:



In addition to powers which it may have, the municipality shall have the
power under this chapter:



(A)   To construct, acquire by gift, purchase or lease, to reconstruct,
improve, better or extend and to finance one or more projects, whether or not
now or hereafter in existence, within or without the municipality or
partially within or without the municipality, but in no event further than
ten (10) miles from the territorial boundaries of such municipality, and, if
desirable, to acquire by gift, purchase or lease lands or rights in land in
connection with any project.



(B)   To issue its revenue bonds to defray in whole or in part the project
costs of any project and to designate an appropriate name for such bonds.



(C)   To rent, lease or sell any project to any person in such manner that
payments to be received with respect to the project shall produce income and
revenues sufficient to provide for the prompt payment at maturity of
principal, interest and redemption premiums, if any, upon all bonds issued to
finance the cost of such project.



(D)   To pledge to the punctual payment of bonds authorized under this
chapter, the interest thereon, and the redemption premiums, if any, the
income and revenues to be received from such project.



(E)   To mortgage such project in favor of the holder or holders of bonds
issued therefor.



(F)   To sell and convey such project, including without limitation the
sale and conveyance thereof subject to a mortgage, if any, as provided in
this chapter, for such price and at such time as the governing body of the
municipality may determine. However, no sale or conveyance of such project
shall ever be made in such manner as to impair the rights or interests of the
holder or holders of any bonds issued to finance the project costs of such
project. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



(G)   To issue its bonds to refund, in whole or in part, bonds theretofore
issued by such municipality under authority of this chapter or under
authority of the industrial project revenue bond act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-74-1, as supplemented and amended. (Ord. 76-325, 9-7-1976)



Property acquired by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be exempt from the imposition and collection of taxes thereon
while owned by the municipality, but the use of such property is subject to
taxation to be paid by the lessee or occupant as provided in section 26 of
the "Revenue Act of 1939" filed May 17, 1939, or as may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-4: EXERCISE OF POWERS; BONDS:



The exercise of all powers granted by this chapter may be authorized, and
bonds may be authorized to be issued under this chapter for the purposes set
forth in this chapter, by ordinance of the governing body of the municipality
which may be adopted at the same meeting at which it is introduced and shall
take effect immediately upon adoption.



The bonds shall bear interest at such rate or rates, payable at such times,
may be in one or more series, may bear such date or dates, may mature at such
time or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates, may
be payable in such medium of payment at such place or places, may carry such
registration privileges, may be subject to such terms of redemption at such
premiums, may be executed in such manner, may contain such terms, covenants
and conditions, and may be in such form, either coupon or registered, as such
ordinance may provide or as may be subsequently determined by the governing
body before the bonds are issued. The bonds may be sold at public or private
sale in such manner and upon such terms as may be deemed advisable by the
governing body of the municipality. Pending the preparation of the definitive
bonds, interim receipts or certificates in such form and with such provisions
as the governing body of the municipality may determine, may be issued to the
purchaser or purchasers of bonds sold pursuant to this chapter. The bonds and
interim receipts or certificates shall be deemed to be securities and
negotiable instruments within the meaning and for all purposes of the
"Uniform Commercial Code". (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-5: COVENANTS IN BONDS:



Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this chapter may
contain covenants as to:



(A)   The use and disposition of the income and revenues from the project
for which the bonds are to be issued, including the creation and maintenance
of reserves.



(B)   The issuance of other or additional bonds relating to the project or
any rehabilitation, improvements, renovations, enlargements or additions
thereto.



(C)   The maintenance and repair of such project.



(D)   The insurance to be carried thereon and the use and disposition of
insurance monies.



(E)   The appointment of any bank or trust company within or outside the
state of Illinois, having the necessary trust powers as trustee for the
benefit of the bondholders, paying agent and bond registrar.



(F)   The investment of any funds held by such trustee.



(G)   The terms and conditions upon which the holders of the bonds or any
portion thereof or any trustees therefor, are entitled to the appointment of
a receiver.



Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this chapter may
provide that the principal of and interest on any bonds issued under this
chapter shall be secured by a mortgage or indenture of trust covering such
project for which the bonds are issued and may include any improvements or
extensions thereafter made. Such mortgage or indenture of trust may contain
such covenants and agreements to properly safeguard the bonds as may be
provided for in the ordinance authorizing such bonds and shall be executed in
the manner as may be provided for in the ordinance. The provisions of this
chapter and any such ordinance or ordinances and any such mortgage or
indenture of trust shall constitute a contract with the holder or holders of
the bonds and continue in effect until the principal of, the interest on, and
the redemption premiums, if any, on the bonds so issued have been fully paid,
and the duties of the municipality and its corporate authorities and officers
under this chapter and any such ordinance or ordinances and any such mortgage
or indenture of trust shall be enforceable by any bondholder by mandamus,
foreclosure of any such mortgage or indenture of trust or other appropriate
suit, action or proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction; provided
the ordinance or any mortgage or indenture of trust under which the bonds are
issued may provide that all such remedies and rights to enforcement may be
vested in a trustee for the benefit of all the bondholders which trustee
shall be subject to the control of the holders or owners of not less than
twenty five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of bonds outstanding.
(Ord. 76-325, 9-7-1976)



1-9-6: SIGNATURES OF OFFICERS ON BONDS; VALIDITY OF BONDS:



The bonds shall bear the signatures of such officers of the municipality as
may be designated in the ordinance authorizing such bonds, and such
signatures shall be the valid and binding signatures of the officers of the
municipality, notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payments
therefor any or all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon have
ceased to be officers of the municipality issuing such bonds. The validity of
the bonds is not dependent on nor affected by the validity or regularity of
any proceedings relating to the acquisition, purchase, construction,
reconstruction, improvement, equipping, betterment or extension of the
project for which the bonds are issued. The ordinance authorizing the bonds
may provide that the bonds shall contain a recital that they are issued
pursuant to this chapter, which recital shall be conclusive evidence of their
validity and of the regularity of their issuance. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-7: LIEN OF BONDS:



All bonds issued under this chapter have a lien upon the income and revenues
derived from the project for which the bonds have been issued, and the
governing body may provide in the ordinance or ordinances authorizing such
bonds for the issuance of additional bonds to be equally and ratably secured
by a lien upon such income and revenues or may provide that the lien upon
such income and revenues is subordinate. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-8: LIABILITY FOR BONDS:



All bonds issued under and pursuant to this chapter shall be limited
obligations of the municipality payable solely out of the income and revenues
derived from the project with respect to which such bonds are issued. No
holder of any bonds issued under this chapter has the right to compel any
exercise of taxing power of the municipality to pay the bonds, the interest
or premium, if any, thereon, and the bonds do not constitute an indebtedness
of the municipality or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory provision. It shall be plainly stated on the face
of each bond that it has been issued under the provisions of this chapter and
that it does not constitute an indebtedness of the municipality or a loan of
credit thereof within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory
provisions. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-9: INVESTMENT OF FUNDS:



The municipality, or any trustee on behalf of the municipality, may invest
any funds held by it pursuant to this chapter in:



(A)   Any bonds or other obligations which as to principal and interest
constitute trust obligations of or are unconditionally guaranteed by the
United States of America.



(B)   Obligations of the federal national mortgage association.



(C)   Obligations of the federal intermediate credit corporation.



(D)   Obligations of federal banks for cooperatives.



(E)   Obligations of federal land banks.



(F)   Obligations of federal home loan banks.



(G)   Certificates of deposit of banks or trust companies organized under
the laws of the United States or any state thereof.



(H)   Commercial paper rated prime by national credit office or a similar
rating agency.



(I)   Other investments then permitted by law.



Any such securities may be purchased at the offering or market price thereof
at the time of such purchase. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-10: EXEMPTION FROM CONSTRUCTION AND BIDDING REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC
BUILDINGS:



The acquisition and construction of a project shall not be subject to any
requirements relating to public buildings, structures, grounds, works or
improvements imposed by the Illinois Compiled Statutes or any other similar
requirements which may be lawfully waived by this section and any requirement
of competitive bidding or restriction imposed on the procedure for award of
contracts for such purpose or the lease, sale or other disposition of
property of the municipality is not applicable to any action taken under
authority of this chapter. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



1-9-11: POWERS CONFERRED AS ADDITIONAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL; LIMITATIONS IMPOSED;
EFFECT:



The powers conferred by this chapter are in addition and supplemental to, and
the limitations imposed by this chapter shall not affect, the powers
conferred by any law or any other ordinance. Projects may be acquired,
purchased, constructed, reconstructed, improved, bettered, equipped, extended
and financed, and bonds may be issued under this chapter for such purposes,
notwithstanding that any law or any other ordinance may provide for the
acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipping,
betterment, extension and financing of a like project, or the issuance of
bonds for like purposes, and without regard to the requirements,
restrictions, limitations or other provisions contained in any law or any
other ordinance. (Ord. 76-292, 1-5-1976)



CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC WORKS LABORERS, WAGES



1-10-1: PREVAILING RATE OF WAGE:



To the extent and as required by "An Act Regulating Wages of Laborers,
Mechanics and Other Workmen Employed in Any Public Works by the State,
County, City or Any Public Body or Any Political Subdivision or by Any One
Under Contract for Public Works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the
general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and
other workmen engaged in the construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of this city is hereby ascertained to be the same as the
prevailing rate of wages for construction work in Clay County area as
determined by the department of labor of the state of Illinois as of June of
each calendar year, a copy of that determination being attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference. The definitions of any terms appearing in
this chapter which are also used in aforesaid act shall be the same as in
said act. (Ord. 80-490, 6-2-1980; amd. Ord. 09-2259, 7-6-2009)



1-10-2: EXCEPTIONS:



Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general prevailing
rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except public
works construction of this city to the extent required by the aforesaid act.
(Ord. 80-490, 6-2-1980)



1-10-3: RATE OF WAGE KEPT POSTED:



The city clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of this city this determination of such
prevailing rate of wage. (Ord. 80-490, 6-2-1980)



1-10-4: DETERMINATION TO EMPLOYERS:



The city clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and
to any association of employers and to any person or association of employees
who have filed, or file their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of
workmen whose wages will be affected by such rates. (Ord. 80-490, 6-2-1980)



CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURE



1-11-1: ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE:



65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., is hereby adopted and as
may be amended from time to time and as allowed by said statute. (Ord.
00-1601, 6-19-2000)



1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:



As used in this chapter, unless context requires otherwise:



BUILDING INSPECTOR: A full time municipal employee whose duties include the
inspection or examination of structures or property in the municipality to
determine if zoning or other code violations exist.



CODE: Any municipal ordinance, law, housing, building code or zoning
ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are
applicable to structures in a municipality.



HEARING OFFICER: A municipal employee or an officer or agent of the
municipality, other than a property inspector or law enforcement officer,
whose duty is to:



(A) Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or not a
code violation exists;



(B) Hear testimony and accept evidence from the property inspector, the
building owner and all interested parties relevant to the existence of a code
violation;



(C) Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits and
evidence introduced at the hearing;



(D) Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating whether a
code violation exists.



PROPERTY OWNER: The legal or beneficial owner of a structure. (Ord. 99-1512,
7-6-1999)



1-11-3: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT:



(A)   There is hereby established a code hearing department the function
of which is to expedite the presentation and correction of code violations in
the manner set out in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., and
this chapter.



(B)   The adoption of this chapter does not preclude the municipality from
using other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord.
99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-4: CODE HEARING PROCEDURE:



(A)   When a building inspector finds a code violation while inspecting a
property, he shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice and
report form, indicating the name and address of the property owner, the type
and nature of the violation, the date and time the violation was observed,
the names of witnesses to the violation, and the address of the property
where the violation is observed.



(B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded by the building
inspector to the code hearing department where a docket number shall be
stamped on all copies of the report, and a hearing date noted in the blank
spaces provided for that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be
less than thirty (30) days nor more than forty (40) days after the violation
is reported by the building inspector.



(C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the
files of the code hearing department and shall be part of the record of
hearing, one copy of the report form shall be returned to the building
inspector so that he may prepare evidence of the code violation for
presentation at the hearing on the date indicated, and one copy of the report
form shall be served by first class mail on the property owner along with a
summons commanding the property owner to appear at the hearing. If the name
of the property owner of the structure cannot be ascertained or if service on
the property owner cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the
property owner by posting or nailing a copy of the violation report form on
the front door of the structure where the violation is found, not less than
twenty (20) days before the hearing is scheduled. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-5: SUBPOENAS:



At any time prior to the hearing date the hearing officer assigned to hear
the case may, at the request of the building inspector or the attorney for
the municipality, or the property owner or his attorney, issue subpoenas
directing witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. (Ord.
99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-6: DEFAULT:



If on the date set for hearing the property owner or his attorney fails to
appear, the hearing officer may find the property owner in default and shall
proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a
code violation. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-7: CONTINUANCES AND REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS:



No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in proceedings
under this chapter except in cases where a continuance is absolutely
necessary to protect the rights of the owner. Lack of preparation shall not
be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing officer
under this section shall not exceed twenty five (25) days. The case for the
municipality may be presented by the building inspector, by any other
municipality employee or by an attorney designated by the municipality.
However, in no event shall the case for the municipality be presented by an
employee of the code hearing department. The case for the property owner may
be presented by the owner, his attorney, or any other agent or
representative. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-8: EVIDENCE AT HEARING:



At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a code violation
relating to a property or structure indicated. The strict rules of evidence
applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by
this chapter. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-9: RETALIATORY ACTION AGAINST OCCUPANTS PROHIBITED:



No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer
or other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an
occupant of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or
testifies at a code violation hearing. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-10: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS:



It shall be a defense to a code violation charge under this chapter if the
property owner, his attorney, or any other agent or representative proves to
the hearing officer's satisfaction that:



(A)   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or
at the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or removed;



(B)   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the property owner to maintain
the dwelling free of such violations, the current occupants continue to cause
the violations;



(C)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
property owner or his agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of
correcting the code violation. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-11: FINDINGS, DECISION, ORDER OF HEARING OFFICER:



At the conclusion of the hearing the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether
or not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and
shall be designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision
and order shall include the hearing officer's finding of fact, a decision
whether or not a code violation exists based upon the findings of facts, and
an order ordering the property owner to correct the violation or dismissing
the case in the event a violation is not proved.



If a code violation is proved, the order may also impose the sanctions that
are provided in this code for the violation proved. A copy of the findings,
decision, and order shall be served on the property owner within five (5)
days after they are issued; service shall be in the same manner as the report
form and summons are served pursuant to subsection 1-11-4(C) of this chapter.
Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall be in
the same manner as set forth in this code, unless the corporate authorities
adopting this chapter provide otherwise. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-12: FINES AND SANCTIONS:



The municipality adopts by reference all current and future local ordinances,
and those provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq.,
governing property or zoning codes applicable to structures or properties
relative to construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention,
sanitation and other safety standards in the municipality, for its
enforcement and adjudication within the geographical boundaries of the
municipality. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-13: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW TO APPLY:



The findings, decision and order of the hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of Clay County, and the provisions of the
administrative review law 30 , and all amendments and modifications thereto,
and the rules adopted pursuant thereto are adopted and shall apply to and
govern every action for the judicial review of the final findings, decision
and order of a hearing officer under this chapter. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-14: DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS:



(A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine,
other than sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the
administrative review law shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and,
as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.



(B)   After expiration of the period within judicial review under which
the administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the
code violation, the municipality may commence a proceeding in the circuit
court for purposes of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision and
order. Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from
consolidating multiple findings, decisions and orders against a person in
such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the municipality shall
file a certified copy of the findings, decision and order which shall be
accompanied by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
findings, decision and order was issued in accordance with this chapter and
applicable state law. Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may
be by any method provided by section 2-203 of the code of civil procedure or
by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amounts
of fines, other sanctions and costs imposed by the findings, decision and
order does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord.
99-1512, 7-6-1999)



1-11-15: SANCTIONS AND FINDINGS TO RUN WITH PROPERTY:



The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the
municipality as the result of a code violation under this chapter shall
attach to the property as well as to the property owner so that a finding of
a code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or
transferring the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or
owner of property takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a
hearing officer under this chapter. (Ord. 99-1512, 7-6-1999)



 


Notes

30 
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.



CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION



1-12-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS:



The city hereby adopts 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., in
its current form and as it may be amended from time to time for adjudication
of municipal code violations to the extent permitted by the Illinois
constitution. As used in this chapter, a "system of administrative
adjudication" means the adjudication of any violation of any city ordinances,
except for: a) proceedings not within the statutory or the home rule
authority of municipalities 31 ; b) any offense under the Illinois vehicle
code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement
of vehicles and except for any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the
Illinois vehicle code 32 ; and c) any offense for building code violations as
provided by previous municipal ordinances adopted in accordance with 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., to be determined on a case by
case basis by the municipality. (Ord. 99-1513, 7-7-1999)



1-12-2: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:



The adoption by the municipality of a system of administrative adjudication
does not preclude the municipality from using other methods to enforce
municipal ordinances. (Ord. 99-1513, 7-7-1999)



1-12-3: CODE HEARING UNITS; POWERS OF HEARING OFFICERS:



(A)   There is hereby established a code hearing unit in the city
government. The code hearing unit shall have jurisdiction to adjudicate any
violation of any city ordinances (hereinafter referred to from time to time
as "Code violations") except for: 1) proceedings not within the statutory or
the home rule authority of municipalities 33 ; 2) any offense under the
Illinois vehicle code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation
governing the movement of vehicles and except for any reportable offense
under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle code 34 ; and 3) any offense for
building code violations as provided by previous municipal ordinances adopted
in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., to be
determined on a case by case basis by the municipality.



(B)   Adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by hearing officers.
The powers and duties of a hearing officer shall include:



1. Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the existence
of the code violation;



2. Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;



3. Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing;



4. Issuing a determination, based on the evidence presented at the hearing,
of whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and
shall include a written finding of fact, decision and order including the
fine, penalty, or action with which the defendant must comply; and



5. Imposing penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation,
except, however, that in no event shall the hearing officer have authority
to: a) impose a penalty of incarceration, or b) impose a fine in excess of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or at the option of the municipality,
such other amount not to exceed the maximum amount established by the
mandatory arbitration system as prescribed by the rules of the Illinois
supreme court from time to time for the judicial circuit in which the
municipality is located, the maximum monetary fine under this subsection
(B)5, shall be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure
compliance with the municipality's ordinances and shall not be applicable to
cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the
municipality.



(C)   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings,
administrative hearing officers shall have successfully completed a formal
training program which includes the following:



1. Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings which
they will conduct;



2. Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they will
adjudicate;



3. Observation of administrative hearings; and



4. Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and
issuing final orders.



In addition, every administrative hearing officer must be an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state for at least three (3) years.



(D)   A proceeding before a code hearing unit shall be instituted upon the
filing of a written pleading by an authorized official of the municipality.
(Ord. 99-1513, 7-7-1999)



1-12-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEEDINGS:



(A)   Parties to administrative adjudication shall be afforded due process
of law, including notice and opportunity for hearing. Parties shall be served
with process in a manner reasonably calculated to give them actual notice,
including, as appropriate, personal service of process upon a party or its
employees or agents; service by mail at a party's address; or notice that is
posted upon the property where the code violation is found when the party is
the owner or manager of the property.



(B)   Parties shall be given notice of an adjudicatory hearing which
includes the type and nature of the code violation to the adjudicated, the
date and location of the adjudicatory hearing, the legal authority and
jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for
failure to appear at the hearing.



(C)   Parties shall be provided with an opportunity for a hearing during
which they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross
examine opposing witnesses. Parties may request the hearing officer to issue
subpoenas to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and
the production of relevant documents. Hearings shall be scheduled with
reasonable promptness, provided that for hearings scheduled in all
nonemergency situations, if requested by the defendant, the defendant shall
have at least fifteen (15) days after service of process to prepare for a
hearing. For purposes of this subsection, "nonemergency situation" means any
situation that does not reasonably constitute a threat to the public
interest, safety, or welfare. If service is provided by mail, the fifteen
(15) day period shall begin to run on the day that the notice is deposited in
the mail. (Ord. 99-1513, 7-7-1999)



1-12-5: RULES OF EVIDENCE SHALL NOT GOVERN:



The formal and technical rules of evidence do not apply in an adjudicatory
hearing permitted under this chapter. Evidence, including hearsay, may be
admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. (Ord. 99-1513, 7-7-1999)



1-12-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:



Any final decision by a code hearing unit that a code violation does or does
not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative
review law. (Ord. 99-1513, 7-7-1999)



1-12-7: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:



(A)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine,
other sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or
the failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois
administrative review law are a debt due and owing the municipality and may
be collected in accordance with applicable law.



(B)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of
a code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.



(C)   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a
judgment ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any
fine or other sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred
by a municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or
foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
hearing officer, shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and may be
collected in accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being
fixed by a hearing officer pursuant to this subsection, the municipality
shall provide notice to the defendant that states that the defendant shall
appear at a hearing before the administrative hearing officer to determine
whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice
shall set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7)
days from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the
seven (7) day period shall begin to run on the date that the notice was
deposited in the mail.



(D)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the
code of civil procedure or by the uniform commercial code, a lien shall be
imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in
the amount of any debt due and owing the municipality under this section. The
lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a
judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction.



(E)   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days
after the issuance of the order of default, if the hearing officer determines
that the petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or
at any time if the petitioner establishes that the municipality did not
provide proper service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to
this subsection, the hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order
extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the
municipality as a result of the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 99-1513,
7-7-1999)



1-12-8: IMPACT ON EXISTING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEMS:



This chapter shall not affect the validity of systems of administration
adjudication that were authorized by state law, including the city
ordinances, and in existence prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord.
99-1513, 7-7-1999)



 


Notes

31 
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.

32 
625 ILCS 5/6-204.

33 
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.

34 
625 ILCS 5/6-204.



TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS



CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF HEALTH
(Rep. by Ord. 99-1554, 12-20-1999)



CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION



2-2-1: PURPOSE:



In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive city plan for the guidance, direction and control of the growth
and development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous territory not
more than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included in any municipality, the plan commission is hereby created, pursuant
to state statute 35 . (1956 Code, Sec. 10.01)



2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:



The planning commission of the city shall consist of the same members as the
zoning board as said members of the zoning board are appointed pursuant to
the zoning ordinance of the city and the term of said member of said planning
commission shall be the same as the respective membership on the zoning
board. (Ord. 94-1200, 5-16-1994)



2-2-3: TERM OF OFFICE:



(Rep. by Ord. 94-1200, 5-16-1994)



2-2-4: PROCEDURE:



Immediately following their appointment, the members of the plan commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter rules and regulations or organization and procedure
consistent with this code and state laws. The commission shall also file an
annual report with the mayor and city council setting forth its transactions
and recommendations. (1956 Code, Sec. 10.04)



2-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:



The plan commission shall have the following powers and duties:



(A)   To prepare and recommend to the city council a comprehensive plan
for the present and future development or redevelopment of the city and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (1 1/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits of the city and not included in any other
municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical
or functional parts, each of which, when adopted shall be the official
comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the city. Such plan shall be
advisory, except as to such part thereof as has been implemented by
ordinances duly enacted by the city council. All requirements for public
hearing, filing said plan of adoption with the county recorder of deeds, and
filing of said plan and ordinances with the city clerk shall be complied with
as provided by law.



(B)   To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the
inhabitants of the city and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall
establish reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements as herein defined and shall establish
reasonable requirements governing the location, width, course and surfacing
of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service facilities,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds,
size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water drainage, water
supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and treatment.
The requirements specified herein shall become regulatory only when adopted
by ordinance.



(C)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the municipality and
the recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.



(D)   To recommend to the city council from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary.



(E)   To prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time,
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the
official comprehensive plan.



(F)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements, and generally to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan.



(G)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding.



(H)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and
other agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.



(I)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of state law as may be conferred by the city council. (1956 Code,
Sec. 10.05)



2-2-6: LAND SUBDIVISION, RESUBDIVISION:



At any time or times, before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan or one or more separate geographical
or functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half (1 1/2) miles from the corporate
limits of the city. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of
adoption with the county recorder of deeds, and filing of said plan and
ordinances, including the official map, with the city clerk shall be complied
with as provided for by law. (1956 Code, Sec. 10.06)



Any individual or entity developing a subdivision or resubdivision or any
portion thereof shall present a plan/proposal to the zoning administrator of
the city for review. The zoning administrator shall compare the plan with the
specifications, rules and regulations of the city including the zoning rules
and regulations and thereafter, the zoning administrator shall tender the
proposal or plan to the planning commission and zoning board of the city
acting in the respective capacities for approval or disapproval of said plan;
to be approved or disapproved by a majority vote of said planning commission
and zoning board and, if said plan or proposal is approved by the planning
commission and the zoning board the same shall be submitted to the city
council of the city for final approval. The city council of the city may
accept the proposal from the planning commission and the zoning board, amend
the plan or proposal, return the plan or proposal to the city planning
commission and the zoning board for further action or reject the plan or
proposal in its entirety. In the event the individual or entity who has
submitted the plan/proposal to the zoning administrator and the zoning board
and planning commission have rejected the plan, the individual or entity may
submit the plan to the city council for its review as to acceptance,
amendment or denial by the city council within thirty (30) days after denial
by the zoning board and/or planning commission and at one of the regular
scheduled meetings of the city council of the city. (Ord. 94-1200, 5-16-1994)



2-2-7: IMPROVEMENTS:



The city clerk shall furnish the plan commission for its consideration a copy
of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The plan commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the city. (1956 Code,
Sec. 10.07)



2-2-8: EXPENDITURES:



The commission may at the discretion of the city council, employ a paid
secretary, or staff, or both, whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses shall be provided for by adequate appropriation made by the city
from the public funds. If said plan commission shall deem it advisable to
secure technical advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the
city council and appropriations by the city council therefor. (1956 Code,
Sec. 10.08)



 


Notes

35 
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4.



CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS



2-3-1: BOARD CREATED:



There is hereby created a board of fire and police commissioners consisting
of three (3) members, as provided by statute 36 . (1956 Code, Sec. 1.35)



2-3-2: APPOINTMENT; TERMS:



The board of fire and police commissioners shall be appointed by the mayor by
and with the consent of the council. The terms of office of the members of
the board of fire and police commissioners shall be three (3) years and until
their respective successors shall be appointed and qualified; provided, that
no such appointments shall be made by the mayor within thirty (30) days
before the expiration of his term of office; and provided further, that the
mayor shall appoint the first members of such board, one of whom is appointed
to serve until the end of the current municipal year in which such
appointment is made, another shall serve until the end of the municipal year
ensuing, and the third shall serve until the end of the municipal year second
next ensuing; provided, that each of the first members of the board shall
serve until his successor is appointed and qualified. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.35)



2-3-3: QUALIFICATION; OATH; BOND; REMOVAL:



The members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall have such
qualifications as are now, or may hereafter be required of them by law. Each
member of the board of fire and police commissioners shall take oath or
affirmation of office and shall execute and deliver to the city a bond in the
sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with such sureties as the mayor and
council shall approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties
of his office. The members of the board of fire and police commissioners
shall be subject to removal from the office in the same manner as other
officers of the city. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.35)



2-3-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:



The board of fire and police commissioners shall have such powers and duties
as are now, or as may hereafter be, given to it by law; provided, that said
board shall have no power to appoint or remove the chief of the police
department and it shall not be required that the chief of police be appointed
from the members of the police department, nor shall said board have or
exercise any authority over the chief of said department; provided further,
that said board shall have no power or duties concerning the fire department
of the city or the personnel thereof. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.35)



2-3-5: SECRETARY:



(Rep. by Ord. 92-1130, 10-5-1992)



2-3-6: COMPENSATION; FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSION, POLICE PENSION BOARD:



(A)   Members of the fire and police commission and members of the police
pension board of the city who are not members of the police force of the
city, or retired or disabled police officers of the city, shall be entitled
to receive per diem compensation for all time spent by said members in the
performance of their official duties. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.36)



(B)   All such persons who are entitled to pay as provided in subsection
(A) of this section shall be paid at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each meeting.



(C)   All such persons enumerated in this section are entitled to pay at
the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for time spent in the official
performance of their duties, other than the duties performed at the meeting
of the board or commission of which said person is a member, provided that
said person shall not be entitled to both compensation for attending a
meeting of the respective board or commission of which he or she is a member
and for time spent in the official performance of their duties performed
during the same period of time. (Ord. 96-1275, 1-15-1996)



(D)   All members of the fire and police commission and the police pension
board shall be entitled to actual reimbursement for all money expended by
them in the performance of their official duties regardless of whether they
are members of the police force or retired or disabled members of the police
force of the city. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.36)



(E)   Compensation payable to members of the police pension board and to
members of the fire and police commission shall be paid by the city from
funds appropriated for general corporate purposes. Claims for said sums shall
be filed with the city clerk. (Ord. 790, 7-6-1964)



2-3-7: STATUTES:



All of the terms, qualifications, powers and duties or otherwise as set forth
hereinabove shall be subject to the statutes of the state of Illinois and
specifically 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq., and wherein
there is any conflict between this chapter and said statutes, or any other
statutes of the state of Illinois, the statutes of the state of Illinois
shall take precedence. (Ord. 92-1130, 10-5-1992)



 


Notes

36 
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1 et seq.



CHAPTER 4
INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION



2-4-1: FUND CREATED:



There is hereby created a fund to be known as the "Industrial Fund" which
shall be used for the purposes of carrying out and financing the powers
conferred upon the city by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74-1 through
5/11-74-13 and 5/11-74.1-1, and for no other purposes. Said fund shall
consist of such sums of money as the city council may hereafter transfer from
the general corporate fund of the city for the acquisition, purchase,
construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment and extension of
industrial buildings and the acquisition of land for industrial purposes, and
all rentals, interest, income and dividends from the sale, lease or
conveyance of any properties acquired thereby and such other sums as may by
law be provided for the acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction,
improvement, betterment and extension of industrial buildings and the
acquisition of land for industrial purposes. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.37)



2-4-2: COMMISSION CREATED:



All of the powers conferred upon the city by the aforesaid statute and the
fund hereby created shall be administered by an industrial commission, which
shall be designated as the "Flora Industrial Commission", which commission is
hereby created. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.37)



2-4-3: MEMBERS; RULES:



The industrial commission shall consist of thirteen (13) members, one of
which shall be the mayor of the city, who shall serve as a member thereof
during his or her term of office as mayor. All appointments to the industrial
commission shall be made by the mayor with the consent of the city council.
The terms of the members of the commission shall be for four (4) years.
Appointments shall be made by the mayor with the consent of the city council
in December of each year as to the memberships which have expired. Each
commission member shall serve for a four (4) year term.



In the event of a vacancy occurring upon said commission, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired term by appointment of the mayor with the consent
of the council.



A majority of said commission shall consist of a quorum and the commission
shall adopt rules and bylaws governing the time and place of its meetings and
the conduct thereof. The fiscal year of said commission shall end on April 30
of each year. (Ord. 94-1222, 10-3-1994; amd. Ord. 07-2067, 6-4-2007; amd.
Ord. 18-2994, 6-18-2018)



2-4-4: QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION:



A commission member shall be a resident of Clay County, Illinois. No member
of the commission shall be entitled to any compensation for services rendered
as a member of the commission, but said members shall be entitled to
reimbursement for expenses made on behalf of the city or expenses incurred in
the discharge of their duties as members of said commission.



(1956 Code, Sec. 1.37; amd. Ord. 07-2067, 6-4-2007)



2-4-5: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; RECORDS:



The commission shall organize by the election of one of its members as
chairman, one as vice chairman and one as secretary at the first meeting of
the commission, and annually thereafter. The treasurer of said fund shall be
the treasurer of the city. The chairman or any two (2) members of the
commission may call special meetings of the commission. Provision shall be
made in the bylaws for holding regular meetings not less than one each
quarter, of which special notice need not be given. The commission shall
cause all accounts, records and books concerning the management, operation
and disbursement of the industrial fund to be audited by a certified public
accountant annually, the audit to be made at the end of each fiscal year of
the city. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.37)



2-4-6: POWERS; EXPENDITURES:



The commission shall have full and complete supervision, management and
disbursement of the industrial funds and the property acquired thereby,
subject, however, to approval thereof by the city council. All contracts for
construction or purchase pertaining to public improvement or the maintenance
of said industrial building or industrial property supervised by the
commission involving an outlay of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) or more shall be in accordance with state law. (1956 Code, Sec.
1.37)



2-4-7: CONTRACTS; FUNDS:



All contracts for, or acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction,
improvement, betterment or extension of any industrial building or lands
acquired for industrial purposes, or the lease, rental, sale or conveyance of
such building or lands acquired for industrial purposes by the city, shall be
only upon recommendation of the commission, which shall consider and submit
the same to the city council for its approval, and the council shall
authorize such contract for, or acquisition, purchase, construction,
reconstruction, improvement, betterment, extension, lease, rental, sale or
conveyance by the commission according to law. All proceeds or rentals from
the sale, lease, rental or conveyance of industrial buildings or lands
acquired for industrial purposes of the city shall be collected and accounted
for by the commission and shall be paid into the industrial fund, there to be
used in accordance with the terms of this chapter. (1956 Code, Sec. 1.37)



CHAPTER 5
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY



2-5-1:  ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE; MEMBERSHIP; STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 



(A)   There is hereby created within the city of Flora governmental
organization an entity to be known as the emergency management
agency/emergency services and disaster agency, hereinafter referred to as the
EMA/ESDA. This entity shall be responsible for the coordination of all
emergency management programs within its jurisdiction and with private
organizations, other political subdivisions, the state and federal government
in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
Act (20 ILCS 3305).



(B)   The purpose of the EMA/ESDA shall be the coordination of emergency
services functions which may be necessary for or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural, man-made,
or technological causes.



(C)   The EMA/ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and such additional
members as may be selected by the coordinator and the ESDA membership
committee.



(D)   All emergency services functions of the EMA/ESDA shall at all times
be in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Emergency Management Act
and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.



(Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-2:  LIMITATIONS:  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to:



(A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute, except that
actions otherwise authorized by this chapter or other laws may be taken when
necessary to mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health or safety.



(B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs;
but any communication facility or organization (including but not limited to
radio and television stations, wire services, and newspapers) may be
requested to transmit or print public service messages, furnish information
or instructions in connection with a disaster; all such messages must have
approval from the mayor or the city's administrator.



(C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of
any personnel thereof, when on active duty; but state and political
subdivision emergency operations plans shall place reliance upon the forces
available for performance of functions related to emergency management.



(D)   Limit, modify, or abridge the authority of the governor to proclaim
martial law or exercise any other powers vested in him under the
constitution, statutes, or common law of this state, independent of or in
conjunction with any provision of this Act; limit any home rule unit; or
prohibit any contract or association pursuant to Article VII, Section 10 of
the Illinois Constitution.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-3:  DEFINITIONS:



COORDINATOR:  The staff assistant to the mayor of the city of Flora with the
duty of coordinating the emergency management programs of that political
subdivision.



DISASTER:  An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural, man-made, or
technological cause, including but not limited to fire, flood, earthquake,
wind, storm, hazardous materials spill or other water contamination, blight,
extended periods of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation,
critical shortages of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, or hostile
military or paramilitary actions.



DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE:  A planned event designed specifically to
simulate an actual disaster which will provide emergency operations training
for emergency response personnel, actual response by EMA/ESDA volunteers to
local emergency situations not qualifying as disasters, as defined in this
section, is considered a disaster training exercise. Provided, however that
performance of the usual and customary emergency functions of the political
subdivision (e.g. police, fire, or emergency medical services) is included
within the definition of a disaster training exercise.



EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT:  The efforts of the state and the political
subdivisions develop, plan, analyze, conduct, implement and maintain programs
for disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.



EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY:  The agency established
by ordinance within a political subdivision to coordinate the emergency
management program within that political subdivision and with private
organizations, other political subdivisions, the state and federal government.



EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN:  The written plan of the state and political
subdivision describing the organization, mission, and functions of the
government and supporting services for responding to and recovering from
disasters.



EMERGENCY SERVICES:  The coordination of such functions by the state and its
political subdivision, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural, man-made,
or technological causes. These functions include, without limitation, fire
fighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue,
engineering, warning services, communications, radiological, chemical and
other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken or
threatening areas, emergency assigned functions of plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related
to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or
incidental to protecting life or property.



ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY or IEMA:  The agency established by the
Illinois Emergency Management Act within the executive branch of state
government responsible for coordination of the overall emergency management
program of the state and with private organizations, political subdivisions
and the federal government.



MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:  The utilization of personnel to be dispatched by the
governor, or, if he or she so authorizes the director, by the director to
supplement local political subdivisions for emergency management programs in
response to a disaster.



MUNICIPALITY:  Any city, village and incorporated town.



POLITICAL SUBDIVISION:  Any country, city, village, incorporated town or
township.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-4:  FUNCTIONS; STATUTORY RESPONSIBILITIES:



(A)   The city of Flora EMA/ESDA shall not have jurisdiction outside their
political subdivision, but shall cooperate with the emergency services and
disaster agency of the county.



(B)   The mayor shall notify the Illinois Emergency Management Agency of
the manner in which the political subdivision is providing or securing
emergency management, identify the executive head of the EMA/ESDA and furnish
additional information relating thereto as the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency requires.



(C)   The EMA/ESDA shall prepare and keep current and emergency operations
plan for its geographic boundaries. It shall be submitted to the IEMA for
review and approval, in accordance with paragraph G of Section 10 of the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, and any amendments thereto.



(D)   The EMA/ESDA shall prepare and distribute to all appropriate
officials in written form a clear and complete statement of the emergency
responsibilities of all local departments and officials and of the disaster
chain of command.



(E)   The EMA/ESDA shall coordinated emergency management functions within
the territorial limits of the political subdivision within which it is
organized as are prescribed in and by the state emergency operations plan,
and programs, orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency and in additions, shall conduct such
functions outside of those territorial limits as may be required pursuant to
such mutual aid agreements and compacts as are entered into under
subparagraph 5 of paragraph C of Section 6 of the Illinois Emergency
Management Act, and any amendments thereto.



(F)   The city upon advise for the EMA/ESDA may enter into contracts and
incur obligations necessary to place it in a position effectively to combat
such disasters in order to protect the health and safety or persons and to
protect property, and to provide emergency assistance to victims of those
disasters. If such disasters occur, the county may exercise the powers vested
under this section in the light of the exigencies of the disaster and,
excepting mandatory constitutional requirements, without regard to the
procedures and formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering into contracts, the incurring of
obligations, the employment of temporary workers, the rental of equipment,
the purchase of supplies and materials, and the appropriation, expenditure
and disposition of public funds and property.



(G)   The EMA/ESDA personnel who, while engaged in a disaster or disaster
training exercise, suffer disease, injury or death, shall, for the purpose of
benefits under the Workers' Compensation Act or Workers' Occupational
Diseases Act, only, be deemed to be employees of the state, if:



   1.   The claimant is duly qualified and enrolled (sworn in) as a
volunteer of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency or an emergency
services and disaster agency accredited by the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency; and



   2.   If the claimant was participated in was specifically and
expressly approved by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency.



The Illinois Emergency Management Agency shall use the same criteria for
approving as exercise and utilizing state volunteers as required for any
political subdivision. The computation of benefits payable under either of
those Acts shall be based on the income commensurate with comparable state
employees doing the same type work or income from the person's regular
employment, whichever is greater.



(H)   Prior to conducting a disaster training the mayor or his or her
designee shall provide area media with written notification of the disaster
training exercise. Such notification shall indicate that information relating
to the disaster training exercise shall not be released to the public until
the commencement of the exercise. The notification shall also contain a
request that the notice be so posted to ensure that all relevant media
personnel are advised of the disaster training exercise before it begins.
During the conduct of such disaster training exercise, all messages, two-way
radio communications, briefings, status reports, news releases, and other
oral or written communications shall begin and end with the following
statement, "This is an exercise message".



(I)   The EMA/ESDA under necessary circumstances request the relocation of
all or part of the population from the stricken or threatened area in the
county if relocation is considered necessary for the preservation of life or
for disaster mitigation purposes, pursuant to a declaration of emergency by
the city mayor or his or her designee.



(J)   The EMA/ESDA can prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and
destinations in connection with necessary relocation.



(K)   The EMA/ESDA in cooperation with local officials (mayor and police
services) can control the ingress to and egress from a disaster area, the
movement of persons within the area.



(L)   The EMA/ESDA is deemed necessary can make provisions for the
availability and use of temporary housing.



(M)   The ESDA coordinator will keep all records regarding NIMS
compliance, as directed by the state, and all records will be kept at the
designated EOC.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-5:  EMA/ESDA COORDINATOR OFFICE:



(A)   The EMA/ESDA shall have a coordinator who shall be appointed by the
mayor and approved by the city council.



(B)   The EMA/ESDA coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training, and operation of the EMA/ESDA,
subject to the direction and control of the mayor of the city of Flora.



(C)   The EMA/ESDA shall have an office and the city of Flora is
authorized to designate space in a city building, or elsewhere, as may be
provided for the EMA/ESDA.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-6:  COMPENSATION; STATE REIMBURSEMENT:



(A)   EMA/ESDA members who are paid employees or officers of the city, if
called for training by the state director, shall receive for the time spent
in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held;
members who are not such city employees or officers shall receive for such
training such compensation as may be established by the city council.



(B)   The state treasurer may receive and allocated to the appropriated
fund, any reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to
training members of the EMA/ESDA prescribed by the state director,
compensation for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team
while serving outside the city in response to a call by the governor or state
director, as provided by law, and other reimbursement made by the state
incident to EMA/ESDA activities as provided by law. (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-7:  LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATION:



(A)   A local disaster may be declared only by the mayor or his or her
designee, as provided in Section 7 of the Emergency Interim Executive
Succession Act (5 ILCS 25 7/7 et seq), or any amendments thereto. It shall
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven (7) days except
by or with the consent of the city council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local disaster shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed properly with the city clerk.



(B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operation plan of the city and to authorize the furnishing of aid
and assistance thereunder.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-8:  APPROPRIATION - LEVY OF TAXES: 



The city council may make an appropriation for emergency services and
disaster agency purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in
addition for emergency services and disaster agency purposes only, a tax not
to exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the
assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as
provided by "The Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975";
however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed
twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-9:  OATH: 



Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the city of Flora EMA/ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the EMA/ESDA coordinator:



"I                                 , do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and facilities thereof, both
public and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take
this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion,
and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am
about to enter. I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocated, or am
I, nor have I been a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence; and that during such time I am affiliated with
the City of Flora, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence."



(Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-10:  NO PRIVATE LIABILITY:



(A)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster, or a disaster training exercise together with
his successors in interest, if any, any person on or about such real estate
or premises under such license, privilege or other permission, or for
negligently causing loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.



(B)   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with, and
under the direction of the city under the provisions of the Illinois
Emergency Management Act shall not be civilly liable for causing the death
of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property except in the event of
willful misconduct.



(C)   Any private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or agent
of such person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at the
request of the city under the Illinois Emergency Management Act during an
actual or impending disaster, shall not be civilly liable for causing the
death of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property except in the
event of willful misconduct.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-11:  PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY:



The EMA/ESDA established by this chapter shall not be employed directly or
indirectly by any person for political purposes.  (Ord. 09-2304, 12-7-2009)



2-5-12:  SEVERABILITY: 



If any provision of this chapter after its effective date is held invalid,
such severability shall not affect other provisions, which shall be given
effect without the invalid provision, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are severable, unless otherwise provided by law.  (Ord. 09-2304,
12-7-2009)



TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS



CHAPTER 1
LICENSES



3-1-1: APPLICATION, ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:



(A)   All applications for licenses, except liquor licenses, shall be made
to the city clerk, who shall receive and receipt for the fees therefor. No
license shall be valid until it is approved by the chief of police and signed
by the mayor and city clerk.



(B)   Any yearly license may be transferred once by the endorsement of the
licensee upon the approval of the city council.



(C)   The city clerk shall keep an account of all licenses signed and
issued by him and the amount for which the same are granted 37 . (1956 Code,
Sec. 13.01)



3-1-2: TERM OF LICENSES:



All licenses issued by the city including licenses for dogs kept and
maintained within the city, unless otherwise provided by this code, shall be
annual licenses and unless otherwise provided, shall expire on April 30 of
each calendar year. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.12)



 


Notes

37 
65 ILCS 5/11-42-1 et seq.



CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS



3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:



No circus, carnival or itinerant theatrical exhibition shall give any
performance, entertainment or exhibition without having first secured a
license therefor 38 . (1956 Code, Sec. 13.07)



3-2-2: FEES:



(A)   The license fee for a collection of shows, entertainments, rides,
swings and exhibitions, commonly known as a carnival, is twenty five dollars
($25.00) for the first day of such exhibition and ten dollars ($10.00) for
each succeeding day.



(B)   The license fee for a circus containing three (3) or less rings or
stages, or combinations of rings and stages, is fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each performance. An additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid for
each additional ring or stage.



(C)   The license fee for any itinerant theatrical performance for pay or
compensation is twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first exhibition and ten
dollars ($10.00) for each additional exhibition. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.07)



 


Notes

38 
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5.



CHAPTER 3
COIN OPERATED DEVICES



3-3-1: MUSIC DEVICES:



(A)   No person shall place or permit to be placed any jukebox, music box,
phonograph or radio, or any similar amusement device, or any combination
thereof, from which music may be obtained by the deposit of money or other
token, in any public or private place for general operation by, or for the
amusement of the public or the membership of any club, lodge or association
without first having obtained a license for each such machine.



(B)   The license fee is fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for each
amusement device described in subsection (A) of this section. Licenses shall
expire on April 30 of each year.



(C)   Application for licenses under this section shall be in writing and
contain the name of the applicant, a description of the machine, including
the factory number, model or other distinguishing number or designation, and
the denomination of the coin or coins required for its operation, or the
value of the token used in lieu thereof.



(D)   The license issued shall be affixed in a conspicuous place in or
upon the machine for which it is issued.



(E)   Any license may be transferred to any device put into service to
replace a device withdrawn from service in the same location.



(F)   No music device shall be played in a loud or raucous tone, nor shall
any such licensed device be played after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
before six o'clock (6:00) A.M.



(G)   Any license issued under this section may be revoked by the mayor or
the council whenever in the judgment of either, the public welfare requires
such revocation. Any acceptance of any license shall constitute an agreement
between the parties to such license, even though the license itself does not
so state, that the license may be so revoked 39 . (1956 Code, Sec. 13.09; 
amd. Res., 7-7-2009)



3-3-2: AMUSEMENT DEVICES:



(A)   No person shall place or permit to be placed any mechanical or
electrical amusement devices in any public or private place for general
operation by, or for the amusement of the public or the membership of any
club, lodge or association without first having obtained a license for each
such machine. No person shall place or permit to be placed a single table
used for playing pool, billiards, bagatelle, pigeonhole or any other similar
game called by a different name, whether coin operated or not, in any public
or private place for playing such games by the public or the membership of
any club, lodge or association without first having obtained a license for
such table. (Ord. 83-605, 6-6-1983)



(B)   The license fee is fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for each
amusement device described in subsection (A) of this section above, except
the license fee is two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year for each such
amusement device which is used for gambling purposes and properly licensed
under the laws of the State of Illinois and under the city ordinances, and
except for a table used for playing pool, billiards, bagatelle, pigeonhole or
other similar game called by a different name. The license fee is one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for one (1) table, or two hundred dollars ($200.00) for two
(2) or more tables used for playing pool, billiards, bagatelle, pigeonhole or
other similar game called by a different name. Licenses expire on April 30 of
each year2. (Ord. 95-1240, 4-3-1995; amd. Res., 7-7-2009; amd. Ord. 17-2807,
3-20-2017)



(C)   Application for licenses under this section shall be in writing and
contain the name of the applicant, a description of the machine, including
the factory number, model or other distinguishing number or designation, and
the denomination of the coin or coins required for its operation, or the
value of the token used in lieu thereof.



(D)   The licenses issued shall be affixed in a conspicuous place in or
upon the machine for which it is issued.



(E)   Any license may be transferred to any device put into service to
replace a device withdrawn from service in the same location.



(F)   Any license issued under this section may be revoked by the mayor or
the council whenever in the judgment of either the public welfare requires
such revocation. Any acceptance of any license shall constitute an agreement
between the parties to such license, even though the license itself does not
so state, that the license may be so revoked. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.10)



(G)   All such devices shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view
of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business
where such devices are kept or used. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to authorize, permit or license any gambling device of any nature
whatsoever.



(H)   The chief of police shall inspect or cause the inspection of any
place or building in which any such device or devices are operated or set up
for operation and to inspect, investigate and test such devices,
periodically. (Ord. 75-289, 12-15-1975, eff. 4-30-1976)



3-3-3: CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES:



(A)   License Required: It shall be unlawful to sell or give away any
cigarettes by means of a vending machine in the city without being first
licensed to do so by the city.



(B)   Applications: Application for such licenses shall be made in writing
to the city clerk. Such application shall contain the name of the applicant,
the address at which such sales are to be made, the number of cigarette
vending machines, and shall be filed with the city clerk together with the
license fee hereinafter required. (Ord. 74-206, 4-22-1974)



(C)   Fee:  The annual fee for a license as herein required shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each machine.  (Ord. 95-1240, 4-3-1995; amd.
Res., 7-7-2009)



(D)   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this section or permitting the same to be violated by their employees shall
be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. The holder of such license may
also suffer the penalty of having his license for such sale revoked for any
such violation. Revocation shall be in writing signed by the mayor.



(E)   Police Inspection: The police of the city are hereby authorized and
directed to make periodic examinations of said cigarette vending machines to
determine that said machines are not being used for the sale of cigarettes to
minors. (Ord. 74-206, 4-22-1974)



 


Notes

39 
65 ILCS 5/11-55-1; 35 ILCS 510/1.



CHAPTER 4
DANCE HALLS



3-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; QUALIFICATIONS:




No person shall conduct, operate or maintain any public dance hall or public
place where persons are permitted to assemble for the purpose of dancing
without having first procured a dance hall license. No dance hall license,
however, shall be granted to any person who is not of good moral character,
evidence of which shall be submitted at the time an application for a license
is made. (Ord. 84-642, 2-6-1984)




3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:




All applications for dance hall licenses shall be submitted to the city
council by the city clerk. The council shall direct the city clerk to issue
the license or not to issue it within a reasonable time after the application
is submitted. (Ord. 84-642, 2-6-1984)




3-4-3: LICENSE FEES; TERM:




The license fee for a dance hall license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per year and the license shall permit the operation of a dance hall
or public dancing and shall expire and terminate on April 30 next following
its issuance. The license fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to
the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance
of the license. (Ord. 04-1855, 7-19-2004, eff. 5-1-2005)





All dance hall license fees shall be paid to the city clerk at the time the
application is made and shall be forthwith turned over to the city treasurer.
In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to
the applicant. If the license is granted, the fee shall be deposited in the
general corporate fund or in such other fund as shall be designated, or shall
have been designated, from time to time, by the city council by proper
action. (Ord. 84-642, 2-6-1984)




3-4-4: EXEMPTION FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:




No public school located within the city and being part of the Flora
Community School Unit District 35 or any other public school district
authorized by the state shall be required to obtain a license under this
chapter. (Ord. 84-642, 2-6-1984)




3-4-5: PROHIBITED ACTS, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:




All licensees hereunder shall not allow the playing of any musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
device used for broadcasting of music or any other sounds for the purposes in
this chapter from the hours of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M.
until eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. All sound devices including live
entertainment and bands shall cease at one minute after twelve o'clock
(12:01) A.M. Any violation of this section shall be immediate cause for
revocation of the license and for the penalties set forth hereinbelow. (Ord.
94-1208, 6-6-1994)




3-4-6: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:




The mayor, a city commissioner or any law enforcement officer may enter, at
any time, upon any premises licensed under this chapter to determine whether
any of the provisions of the laws of Illinois or the provisions of this code,
or any rules or regulations adopted by the state of Illinois or the city have
been or are being violated and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensee in connection herewith. (Ord. 84-642, 2-6-1984)




3-4-7: PENALTY:




Any person violating this chapter is guilty of a petty offense for each
violation. A separate violation shall occur on each day the party is not in
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 84-642, 2-6-1984)




CHAPTER 5
LIQUOR



3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:



It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city, any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or in
violation of the terms of such license. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-2: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:



The mayor is the local liquor control commissioner for the city, and is
charged with the administration in the city of the appropriate provisions of
state law and this code relating to alcoholic liquor; provided, the mayor may
appoint a person or persons to assist him in the exercise of the powers and
the performance of the duties provided by state law for such local liquor
control commissioner. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-3: APPLICATION:



Application for a retail liquor dealer's license shall be made to the mayor,
in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly
authorized agent, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit,
and shall contain the following information and statements as well as such
other information as set forth in said application.



(A)   The full name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; and in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation the objects for
which it was organized, the names and addresses and date of birth and place
of birth of the officers, directors, all persons owning directly or
beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation and
the person acting as manager of the premises.



(B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen the time and place of his naturalization.



(C)   The character of the business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.



(D)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.



(E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.



(F)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application
and the disposition of such application.



(G)   A statement whether applicant has ever been convicted of a felony.



(H)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.



(I)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state of Illinois, or of the United States, or any provision of this code
in the conduct of his place of business. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-4: FINGERPRINTING:



The liquor control commissioner may, within his discretion, require any new
applicant for a city liquor license to be fingerprinted whether said
applicant be an individual or a partnership. Should the applicant be a
corporation, the liquor control commissioner may, within his discretion,
require the following to be fingerprinted:



The officers, manager or director thereof or any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the capital stock
of said corporation.



All such fingerprinting shall be done by the city police department. Said
fingerprints shall be submitted to state and/or federal agencies, for
processing. The liquor control commissioner shall issue a written acceptance
or rejection of such application within sixty (60) days of its receipt by the
city or city clerk in his behalf. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-5: PROHIBITED LICENSEES:



No retail liquor dealer's license shall be issued to:



(A)   A person who is not a resident of the city.



(B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community.



(C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.



(D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, if the commission determines after investigation, that such person
has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust.



(E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping
a house of ill fame.



(F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.



(G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.



(H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.



(I)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason.



(J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent
(5%) of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within
the political subdivision.



(K)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the "Business Corporation Act
of 1983" to transact business in Illinois.



(L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
until said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.



(M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the ordinance codified herein or has forfeited
his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.



(N)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.



(O)   Any law enforcing public official, mayor, or member of the city
council; and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor.



(P)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor dealer's license. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:




No license shall be granted to any applicant until such applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the liquor control commissioner that such
applicant is covered by a policy of dramshop insurance issued by a
responsible insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in the
state of Illinois insuring such applicant against liability which applicant
may incur under the provisions of state law. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)




3-5-7: PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:




No license shall be issued for sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, other than an institution of
higher learning, hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons or for
veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval stations,
provided that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
services, regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business
carried on; nor shall said prohibition apply to the renewal of a license for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet
(100') since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church,
the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the nearest part
of any building used for worship services or educational programs and not to
property boundaries. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)




3-5-8: TERM OF LICENSE:




Each retail liquor dealer's license terminates on April 30 next following its
issuance. The license fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the
full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of
the license. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)




3-5-9: CLASSES OF LICENSES:



(A)   Classes:



1. Class A license, which authorizes the sale at retail on the premises
specified, of alcoholic liquor of all kinds, for consumption on the premises,
as well as other retail sales of alcoholic liquor of all kinds in sealed
packages. The annual fee for such license is one thousand two hundred fifty
dollars ($1,250.00).



2. Class B license, which authorizes the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors
of all kinds in sealed packages, but not for consumption on the premises
where sold. The annual fee for such license is eight hundred dollars
($800.00).



3. Class C license, which authorizes the retail sale of beer and wine for
consumption on the premises only. The annual fee for such license is six
hundred dollars ($600.00).



4. Class D license, which authorizes the sale at retail at the premises
specified of beer and wine only in sealed packages, but not for consumption
on the premises where sold. The annual fee for such license is six hundred
dollars ($600.00).



5. Class E license, which authorizes the sale at retail by a private club,
fraternal organization or lodge, except organizations whose membership
consists exclusively of veterans of the military and naval services of the
United States of America, of alcoholic liquor of all kinds for consumption in
the clubrooms or on the premises of said organization. The annual fee for
such license shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00).



6. Class F license, which authorizes the sale at retail by the clubs
conducted and sponsored by any fraternal organization or lodge, except
organizations whose membership consists exclusively of veterans of the
military and naval services of the United States of America, of beer only for
consumption in the clubrooms or on the premises of said organization. The
annual fee for such license is three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).



7. Class G license, which authorizes the sale at retail by local posts or
national veterans' organizations whose membership consists exclusively of
veterans of the military and naval services of the United States of America,
of alcoholic liquors of all kinds for consumption in the clubrooms or in the
premises of said organizations. The annual fee for such license is six
hundred dollars ($600.00).



8. Class H license, which authorizes the sale at retail by local posts of
national veterans' organizations whose membership consists exclusively of
veterans of the military and naval services of the United States of America,
of beer only for the consumption in the clubrooms or on the premises of said
organizations. The annual fee for such license is three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00).



9. Any licensee, to be eligible to keep his place of business open, or to
sell or offer at retail, any alcoholic liquor during the Sunday hours
specified in subsection 3-5-20(A) of this chapter, shall pay, in addition to
the annual fees prescribed in subsections (A)1 through (A)8 of this section,
an additional fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 04-1856, 7-19-2004,
eff. 5-1-2005)



10. Class J License, entitled "Convention Center License", authorizes and
entitles the licensee to make consumption sales of any alcoholic liquor on
the licensed premises only as provided for in this classification of license.
There shall be no sale of alcoholic liquor which shall leave the
establishment. A convention center shall mean any facility designed and
actually used for the purpose of accommodating weddings, celebrations,
parties, or dances by private clubs or individuals or conventions, concerts,
trade shows or other entertainment, provided that such facility has adequate
room and a sufficient number of employees to maintain said premises and serve
the number of guests at such events. Only the employees of the licensee shall
serve alcoholic beverages of any type on said premises. The licensee shall
not allow any parties, entertainment or otherwise on the premises that brings
alcoholic beverages on the premises from outside sources. The facility and
structure shall comply with all rules, regulations and ordinances of the city
of Flora, Illinois as well as the state of Illinois, including Building
Codes, Zoning Ordinances and said premises shall provide adequate on site
parking for vehicles. The annual fee for such a license is six hundred
dollars ($600.00). (Ord. 04-1856, 7-19-2004, eff. 5-1-2005; amd. Ord.
15-2729, 11-16-2015)



(B)   Number Of Licenses: No more than four (4) licenses of class A shall
be issued. No more than five (5) licenses of class B shall be issued. No more
than one (1) license of class C shall be issued. No more than three (3)
licenses of class D shall be issued. Licenses under class E and class F shall
not aggregate more than four (4). Licenses under class G and class H shall
not aggregate more than two (2). No more than one (1) license of class J
shall be issued.



(Ord. 06-1987, 4-17-2006; amd. Ord. 07-2085, 7-16-2007; amd. Ord. 08-2151,
5-19-2008; amd. Ord. 09-2291, 10-5-2009; amd. Ord. 12-2477, 3-5-2012; amd.
Ord. 15-2729, 11-16-2015)



3-5-10: SPECIAL EVENT LICENSE (CLASS I):



(A)   Purpose: A class I liquor license may be issued for a limited period
of time for the purpose of allowing the licensee to raise funds for
charitable, educational or civic purposes.



(B)   License: A class I license may be issued to not for profit
corporations organized and operating under the laws of the state for
charitable, educational or civic purposes. Application shall be made with the
liquor commissioner at least thirty (30) days prior to the date for when the
class I license shall be issued.



(C)   Application: In addition to the requirements contained in this
chapter, the applicant shall include the following information:



1. An executed copy of the lease, rental agreement or other written authority
for the use of the premises if the applicant is not the owner of the premises.



2. The purpose for the issuance of the license.



3. A statement of the applicant's plans for crowd control.



4. Certificate of insurance showing evidence of dramshop and liability
insurance coverage.



5. The specific times and dates for the term of the license.



(D)   Fees: The fee for a class I license shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each calendar day, or part thereof, for which the license is
issued and shall be paid in full at the time the license is issued. (Ord.
88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-11: LICENSE FEES; DISPOSITION:



All retail liquor dealer's license fees shall be paid to the mayor at the
time application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the city
treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, the fee shall be
deposited in the general corporate fund, or in such other fund as shall be
designated, or shall have been designated, from time to time, by the council
of the city, by proper action. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-12: RECORDS:



The mayor shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all licenses
issued by him as local liquor control commissioner, and shall furnish the
clerk, treasurer and chief of police with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance
of any new license, or the revocation of any old license, the mayor shall
give written notice of such action to each of said officers within forty
eight (48) hours of such action. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-13: RENEWAL:




Any license issued hereunder may be renewed by the licensee prior to the
expiration of the term thereof, provided that said licensee is qualified to
hold such license under this chapter, and provided that the premises for
which the license is sought are suitable for the purposes for which the
license is to be issued and the licensee complies with all other terms and
conditions of the city code of the city of Flora, Illinois and the statutes
of the state of Illinois for holding such license.  (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988;
amd. Ord. 10-2343, 6-7-2010)




3-5-14: TRANSFER:



A person holding a license under this chapter who desires to sell his place
of business, together with such license, may do so provided:



(A)   The license must be surrendered to the city.



(B)   The name of the prospective purchaser must be furnished to the local
liquor control commissioner.



(C)   The prospective purchaser must demonstrate to the local liquor
control commissioner that he meets all the requirements for a license under
this chapter.



(D)   Upon the foregoing being fully complied with, a new license shall be
issued to the purchaser for the unexpired term of the surrendered license, no
additional fee being paid therefor.



(E)   No refund shall be paid to the person surrendering the license. If
the purchaser is refused the license, the license shall be returned to the
original licensee. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-15: LOCATION:



A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the
laws of this state and the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 88-911,
4-18-1988)



3-5-16: OPEN VIEW INTO INTERIOR AND IMMEDIATE ACCESS BY POLICE OFFICERS:



(A)   In all premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than a restaurant, hotel or
club), no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be placed
in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises, nor inside such
premises, which prevents a clear view into the interior of such licensed
premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth,
screen, partition or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises, which
prevents a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street,
road or sidewalk; and said premises must be so located that there will be a
full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or
sidewalk.



(B)   All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during the business hours by natural light or
artificial white light, so that all parts of the interior of the premises
shall be clearly visible.



(C)   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him
wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner provided by law. In
order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the mayor shall have the
right to require the filing with him of plans, drawings, and photographs
showing the clearance of the view as above required.



(D)   All premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed by the city of Flora, Illinois, shall allow
immediate access to said facility by police officers at all times. The
license holder of a class A, B, C, or D license shall not cause any doors or
passageways to be locked to said facility at any time alcoholic liquor is
being given or sold to any individual including but not limited to private
parties. Said facility shall keep all doors unlocked and allow for immediate
access by police officers at any time. Any person violating this subsection
(D) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50.00 and no more than
$750.00 for each violation thereof and will be subject to any other penalties
available including loss of liquor license.



(Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988; amd. Ord. 07-2050, 4-2-2007, eff. 5-3-2007)



3-5-17: POWER OF THE LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:



The local liquor control commissioner will have the powers granted to that
position by this chapter and 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-4 et seq., as
amended, including the power to grant or suspend for no more than thirty (30)
days or revoke for cause all local licenses issued to persons for premises
within the jurisdiction of the liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 88-911,
4-18-1988)



3-5-18: POLICE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORIZATION:



(A)   Free and unrestricted access to the licensed premises shall be given
at all times to any police officer, for the investigation, or inspection, of
said premises for the purpose of enforcing this chapter.



(B)   The chief of police or, in his absence, the highest ranking police
supervisor then on duty, is authorized to order the immediate closing of any
licensed premises if the chief, or said ranking supervisor, believes that
such action is necessary to preserve the public peace and order, or to
protect evidence relating to the investigation of an ordinance or statute
violation. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-19: UNLAWFUL SALE:



It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, transport, deliver or
offer for sale at retail within the corporate limits of the city any
alcoholic liquor without having a valid liquor license as required by this
chapter, or to make any such sale in violation of the terms and conditions of
such chapter; provided, however, that no license shall be required of a
drugstore or pharmacy for the purposes of dispensing alcoholic liquors which
are used solely in the concoction or formulating of medicine prescribed by
duly licensed physicians. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-20: CLOSING HOURS:



(A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to keep his place of business
open, or to sell or offer at retail, any alcoholic liquor in the city, except
during the hours expressly permitted. It shall be lawful for all license
holders to sell or offer for sale at retail alcoholic liquor in the city on
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday from six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day, and from twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Sunday.



Notwithstanding the above, on New Year's Eve the permitted hours shall be
from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. New Year's Day.
(Ord. 89-975, 5-1-1989)



(B)   It shall be unlawful for any such licensee to sell or offer to sell
at retail any alcoholic liquor on any day or portion thereof which the mayor
of the city shall publicly proclaim as a day or period of religious devotion,
memorial or holiday. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



(C)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the
public to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail,
during the hours within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited.
Provided, however, that in the case of restaurants, clubs, hotels and grocery
stores, said businesses may be kept open during such hours, but no alcoholic
liquors may be sold or consumed by the public during such hours. Grocery
stores, convenience stores, gasoline service stations or other entities or
individuals selling alcoholic liquor shall keep all refrigerated coolers or
cases locked during such hours that sales are prohibited and any displays of
alcoholic liquor not refrigerated in said establishment shall be completely
covered by nontransparent covering during such hours the alcoholic liquor is
prohibited for sale and shall post on said display a sign no smaller than
twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12") stating no alcoholic liquor may be
sold from said display during hours alcoholic liquor is prohibited for sale
by the city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 02-1699, 1-21-2002)



(D)   All licensees hereunder are hereby prohibited to allow the operation
of any musical instrument, machine, phonograph, loudspeaker or coin operated
device for the purposes of production of sound and music and live
entertainment after the hours of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M.
until eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. All licensees under this chapter shall cease
all musical entertainment, live entertainment or otherwise as of one minute
after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. each and
every day. (Ord. 94-1207, 6-6-1994)



3-5-21: SALE TO MINORS, OTHERS:



(A)   A minor is a person who has not attained his or her twenty first
birthday.



(B)   No person shall sell, give, offer or deliver any alcoholic liquor to
a minor, except as provided in section 3-5-30 of this chapter.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (A) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.



(C)   No licensee nor servant, agent or employee of said licensee shall
sell, offer, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to a minor, nor shall
licensee permit any alcoholic liquor to be sold, given, offered or delivered
to a minor on the licensed premises of said licensee.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (B) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.



(D)   No licensee nor agent or employee of said licensee shall sell, give,
offer or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person or any person
known to be an habitual drunkard, or an insane, feeble minded, or emotionally
handicapped person.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (D) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-22: WARNING SIGNS TO BE POSTED:



In every premises on which the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed, a sign,
clearly visible to the public, shall be posted at the entrance and at the
cash register, by the licensee thereof, to be furnished by the licensee,
which shall read substantially as follows:



WARNING TO MINORS



You must be 21 years old to purchase any liquor and you must be able to prove
it. You are subject to prosecution and fine for the purchase of alcoholic
beverages or misrepresentation of your age for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic beverages.



(Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-23: SALES ON CREDIT:



No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person on
credit or on a pass book, or order on a store, or in exchange for any goods,
wares, or merchandise, or in payment of any service rendered; provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club from
permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members
or bona fide guests of members and charged to the account of such members or
guests in accordance with the bylaws of said club; and provided further that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any hotel from
permitting checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests
residing at said hotel and charged to the account of said guest; and provided
further that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent payment by credit
card or other credit devices for the purchase of liquor in the original
package or container for consumption off the premises. (Ord. 88-911,
4-18-1988)



3-5-24: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:



Every licensee shall cause his license or licenses to be framed and hung in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 88-911,
4-18-1988)



3-5-25: ILLEGAL POSSESSION; CONSUMPTION:



(A)   Illegal Possession; Transportation: No person shall transport,
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor in or about a motor vehicle
except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (B) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.



(B)   Illegal Possession; Consumption By Minor: No minor shall
possess/consume alcoholic liquor.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (A) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-26: UNLAWFUL PURCHASE:



No minor shall purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor in or from
any licensed premises or other person.



(A)   Fine: Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-27: MINORS IN LICENSED PREMISES:



(A)   Minor Frequenting: No minor shall frequent, loiter or remain at or
near a bar in any licensed premises.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (A) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.



(B)   Allowing Minors To Frequent: No licensee nor agent nor employee of
such licensee shall permit or allow a minor to frequent, loiter, or remain at
or near a bar in any licensed premises.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (B) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.



(C)   Employment Of A Minor: No licensee nor agent or employee of said
licensee shall allow any minor to be employed in any manner related to the
tending of bar, or the drawing, pouring, mixing, serving or selling of
alcoholic liquor in any licensed premises.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (C) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-28: CONDUCT ON PREMISES:



No person holding a retail liquor dealer's license under the city code of the
city of Flora, Illinois, an employee thereof or any individual serving
alcoholic beverages pursuant to the retail liquor dealer's license, shall
allow or permit any drunken or intoxicated person to be or remain upon the
licensed premises, or any adjacent room to or connected therewith. No loud,
obscene or boisterous talking, or disorderly conduct or disturbing the peace
shall be permitted upon the licensed premises.



Any person violating this section shall be subject to the penalties as set
forth in Title 1, Chapter 4, Section 1 of the city code of the city of Flora,
Illinois and furthermore upon conviction of the same shall be subject to
suspension of the liquor license or revocation thereof. (Ord. 88-911,
4-18-1988; amd. Ord. 10-2330, 4-19-2010)



3-5-29: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:



(A)   Misrepresentation Of Age By Minor: No minor shall misrepresent his
or her age for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic
liquor in or from a licensed premises.



1. Prevention: For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section,
any licensee or his agent or employee may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and for the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty one (21)
years.



2. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (A) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.



(B)   Providing Fraudulent Identification: No person shall sell, give or
furnish to any minor any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic
evidence of the age and identity of such person, nor shall any person sell,
give or furnish to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years evidence
of age and identification of any other person.



1. Fine: Any person violating this subsection (B) shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-30: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:



(A)   Definitions:



INTENTIONALLY: Conduct engaged in by a person with the conscious objective to
accomplish that result or engage in that conduct.



KNOWINGLY: Conduct engaged in by a person when he is consciously aware of the
nature or attendant circumstances of his conduct which constitutes an offense
under this section.



LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any foster parent, person appointed guardian or given custody
of a minor by a circuit court of this state, or person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the Illinois juvenile court act, but shall not
include any person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor.



MINOR: A person who has not attained his or her twenty first birthday.



NEGLIGENCE: Conduct engaged in by a person where such person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow which constitutes an offense under this section and
where such failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of
care which a reasonable person would exercise in the situation.



PARENTS: Includes the father and mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
adoption, or shall be deemed the parent having legal custody of the minor in
the event the parents are divorced or separated. The term "parent" as used in
this section shall also be deemed to mean "legal guardian".



RECKLESSLY: Conduct engaged in by a person in conscious disregard of a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or that a result
will follow which constitutes an offense under this section and where such
disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.



1. No parent shall give or deliver alcoholic liquor to his minor child for
the minor's consumption unless the consumption of alcoholic liquor by such
minor is in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or the
consumption by a minor is under the direction, supervision, and approval of
the parent of such minor in the privacy of a home.



2. No parent shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently give
or deliver alcoholic liquor to, or permit possession of alcoholic liquor by,
his or her minor child, or any other person under the age of twenty one (21)
years unless such minor or person under the age of twenty one (21) years is
making a delivery of such alcoholic liquor pursuant to his parent, in
pursuance of his employment or otherwise as allowed by subsection (A)1 of
this section.



3. No parent shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently give,
deliver, invite or permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor by any minors
on or about any premises owned, leased or controlled by such parent except as
otherwise allowed by subsection (A)2 of this section.



4. Parents shall restrain or prevent their minor children from consuming
alcoholic liquor where the parent knows, or in the exercise of ordinary care
should know, of a substantial probability that his or her minor child is or
will consume alcoholic liquor under circumstances which would violate the
provisions of this section, the Illinois liquor control act, or any other
ordinances, statutes or amendments thereto.



5. Parents who know, or in the exercise of ordinary care should know, of a
substantial probability that their minor child has consumed or will consume
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section, the Illinois liquor control
act, or any other ordinances, statutes or amendments thereto, shall restrain
or prevent their minor child from operating or driving a motor vehicle on the
public streets and ways of the city in violation of any ordinance, law or
statute.



6. Parents who know, or in the exercise of ordinary care should know, of a
substantial probability that their minor has consumed or will consume
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section, the Illinois liquor control
act, or any other ordinances, statutes or amendments thereto, shall restrain
or prevent their minor child from committing acts which constitute vandalism,
theft, disorderly conduct or the unjustifiable use of force in violation of
any ordinance, law or statute.



(B)   Fine: Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-31: NUDITY ON PREMISES WHERE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS OFFERED FOR SALE:



(A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his agent or employee or
manager operating a licensed establishment at which alcoholic liquors are
offered for sale for consumption on the licensed premises:



1. To permit any female person, while on the premises of that establishment,
to expose to the public view that area of the human breast at or below the
areola thereof.



2. To permit any female person, while on the premises of that establishment,
to employ any device or covering which is intended to give the appearance of
or simulate those portions of the human female breast as described in the
subsection (A)1 of this section.



3. To permit any person, while on the premises of that establishment, to
expose to public view his genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus, or anal cleft
or cleavage.



4. To permit any person, while on the premises of that establishment, to
employ any device or covering which is intended to give the appearance of or
simulate the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus, or anal cleft or cleavage.



(B)   It shall be unlawful for any female person, while on the premises of
an establishment at which alcoholic liquor is offered for sale for
consumption on the premises, to expose to public view that area of the human
female breast at or below the areola thereof, or to employ any device or
covering which is intended to give the appearance of or simulate those areas
of the female breast as described herein.



(C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while on the premises of an
establishment at which alcoholic liquor is offered for sale for consumption
on the premises, to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, anus, or anal cleft or cleavage, or to employ any device or
covering which is intended to give the appearance of or simulate the
genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus, or anal cleft or cleavage. (Ord.
88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-32: SEXUAL CONDUCT PROHIBITED:



(A)   The following conduct on premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises is prohibited:



1. The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, or deviate sexual conduct.



2. The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the genitals,
buttocks, or female breast.



3. The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts set forth in
subsections (A)1 and (A)2 of this section.



(B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his agent, employee, or
manager to suffer or permit any person or persons to perform any of the acts
set forth in subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-33: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:



All of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act and of the rules and
regulations issued by the Illinois liquor control commission which are or may
hereafter be in force, are incorporated into and declared to be a part of
this chapter, the same as if they were expressly set forth herein. (Ord.
88-911, 4-18-1988)



3-5-34: PENALTY:



Unless specifically provided, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall, unless otherwise provided in this chapter, and in addition to
any other action which may be taken by the liquor control commissioner, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and a separate violation shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues or for each separate violation occurring on the same day.
Furthermore, any person or entity holding a license under Title 3, Chapter 5
of the city code of the city of Flora, Illinois whether the individual or
entity or any employee or agent of the licensee violates any title or chapter
of this code or any state or federal laws while licensee hereunder shall be
considered a violation of this chapter, and the same shall be an immediate
cause for suspension or revocation of the licensee's license hereunder
pursuant to the provisions herein and the Illinois liquor control act and the
rules and regulations of the Illinois liquor control commission. (Ord.
94-1207, 6-6-1994; amd. Ord. 11-2438, 6-20-11)



CHAPTER 6
OCCUPATION TAXES



3-6-1: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:



A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property
titled or registered with an agency of the state government, at retail in the
city of Flora, Illinois, at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.



The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to the sale of an item of
tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency of the
government of the state of Illinois and to the sale of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics or otherwise prohibited by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-1.



The tax hereby imposed and also the penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto shall be collected and enforced by the department of revenue
of the state of Illinois. The department of revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce provisions of this section. (Ord. 06-2003, 8-7-2006,
eff. 1-1-2007)



3-6-2: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:



A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) of
the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said service
person either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.



Every service supplier or service person required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of the municipality shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, a report to the state department
of revenue required by section nine of the "service occupation tax act", as
amended 1 .



At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 06-2004, 8-7-2006, eff.
1-1-2007)



3-6-3: GAS AND ELECTRIC UTILITIES TAX:



(A)   Rate Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the
following occupations or privileges:



1. Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas, by means of a system of pipelines, for use or consumption within
the corporate limits of the city and not for resale, at the rate of two
percent (2%) of the gross receipts of all gas sold by said persons.



2. Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling electricity from a central station located within the city for use or
consumption within the corporate limits of the city, and not for resale, at
the rate of two percent (2%) of the gross receipts from all sales therefrom.



(B)   Exemptions: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which said
business may not under the constitution and statutes of the United States be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity be subject to taxation under the
provisions of this section for such transactions as are or may become subject
to taxation under the provisions of the municipal retailers' tax act
authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1, as amended 43 .



(C)   Addition To Other Taxes: Such tax shall be in addition to the
payment of money for value of products or services, if any, furnished to this
municipality by the taxpayer, as compensation for the use of its streets,
alleys or other public places or installation and maintenance therein,
thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the
operation of the taxpayer's business.



(D)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:



GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling of gas and electricity for use or consumption and not
for resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost
of materials used, labor or service costs, or any other expenses whatsoever.



PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.



(E)   Tax Returns: On or before the last day of every third month (March,
June, September and December), each taxpayer shall make a return to the city
treasurer stating:



1. His name.



2. His principal place of business.



3. His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which the tax is
imposed.



4. Amount of tax.



5. Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate authorities
may require.



The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall at the time of
making such return pay to the city treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed, provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may if he
so elects report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive
of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments
based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.



(F)   Overpayments: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid
which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as a result
of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited
against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer
who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid
more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.



(G)   Disposition Of Revenue: The tax imposed under this section shall,
when collected, be paid into the general corporate fund of the city.



(H)   Rates Not To Increase: Until further ordained by the city council,
the amount of said tax so imposed shall be paid from the revenues received by
the city from the distribution, supplying, furnishing or selling of gas by
means of a pipeline distribution system and from the business of the
distribution, supplying, furnishing or selling of electricity from a central
station, shall not be added as an additional cost of such services to the
consumer of such services.



(I)   Violation: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty, and in
addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due 44 .
(1956 Code, Sec. 13.13)



3-6-4: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:



A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item of
tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from
a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of Illinois
government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the selling
price of such tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as
defined in the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955.



Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois department of revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.



The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the Illinois department of
revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five (5) days after
its effective date.



This section shall be published within ten (10) days of its enactment as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-4 and shall be effective on
the first day of the month following the expiration of such public period.
(Ord. 74-229, 10-21-1974; amd. Ord. 83-596, 3-21-1983, eff. retroactive to
3-1-1983)



3-6-5: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:



(A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in this city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7.



(B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by sections two and three of "An Act in
Relation to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible
Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption" approved June 29,
1933, as amended.



(C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.



(D)   The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the state
department of revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five
(5) days after the effective date of this section.



(E)   This section shall be effective on the first of the calendar month
next following publication as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-2-4. Certified proof of publication shall be forwarded to the Illinois
department of revenue along with the certified copy of this section as
required by subsection (D) of this section. (Ord. 82-569, 2-1-1982)



3-6-6: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:



(A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this city an
automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and which is titled
or registered with an agency of this state's government in this city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8.



(B)   The tax provided for in this section shall be collected from the
persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given
as being in this city.



(C)   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the Illinois
department of revenue.



(D)   The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the state
department of revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five
(5) days after the effective date of this section.



(E)   This section shall be effective on the first day of the second
calendar month next following publication as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2-4. Certified proof of publication shall be forwarded to the
Illinois department of revenue along with the certified copy of this section
required by subsection (D) of this section. (Ord. 82-570, 2-1-1982)



3-6-7: HOTEL/MOTEL TAX:



(A)   Title: This section shall be referred to as the CITY HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
and the tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other occupation or
privilege taxes imposed by the state.



(B)   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires:



CITY: The city of Flora, Clay County, Illinois.



HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for consideration,
obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses, rooming
houses and apartment houses.



OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.



OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel.



PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms in a hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.



PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, or a receiver,
executor, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court.



RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.



ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 97-1369, 6-2-1997)



(C)   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed upon persons engaged in the business
of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel in the city at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or
letting, excluding, however, from gross rental receipts, the proceeds of such
renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents of that hotel. Persons
subject to said tax may reimburse themselves for their tax liability for such
tax by separately stating such tax as an additional charge, which charge may
be stated in combination, in a single amount, with state tax imposed under
"the hotel operator's occupation tax act". (Ord. 04-1857, 7-19-2004, eff.
8-1-2004)



(D)   Use Of Tax Funds By City: The amounts collected by the city pursuant
to this section shall be expended by the city solely to promote tourism and
conventions within the city or otherwise to attract nonresident overnight
visitors to the city. No funds received pursuant to this section shall be
used to advertise for or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel/motel
business.



(E)   Exemptions: Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
the city to impose a tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which
under the constitution of the United States may not be made the subject of
taxation by the state.



Persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel only to permanent residents are exempt from the provisions of this
section.



(F)   Books And Records: Every operator shall keep separate books or
records of his business as an operator so as to show the rents and
occupancies taxable under this section separately from his transactions not
taxable hereunder. If any such operator fails to keep such separate books or
records, he shall be liable to tax at the rate designated in subsection (C)
of this section upon the entire proceeds from his hotel.



(G)   Return Of Taxpayer; Payment Of Tax: Except as provided hereinafter
in this subsection, on or before the last date of each calendar month, every
person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel in this city during the preceding calendar month, shall file a return
with the city clerk, stating:



1. The name of the operator;



2. His residence address and the address of his principal place of business
and the address of the principal place of business (if that is a different
address) from which he engages in the business of renting, leasing or letting
rooms in a hotel in this city;



3. Total amount of renting receipts received by him during the preceding
calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such preceding
calendar month;



4. Total amount of rental receipts received by him during the preceding
calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents
during such preceding calendar month;



5. Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts allowed by
this section;



6. Gross rental receipts which were received by him during the preceding
calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;



7. The amount of tax due;



8. The amount of penalty due, if any;



9. Such other reasonable information as the city may require.



10. If the Illinois department of revenue has authorized the operator to file
returns on a quarter annual basis or annual basis as provided for in section
6 of "The Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax Act" (Illinois Revised Statutes,
1989, ch. 120, par. 481 b. 36; or 35 ILCS 145) the operator may file returns
and pay tax liability to the city at the same time he is required to file his
returns and pay his tax liability to the state.



11. Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and substance, shall
be subject to the same requirements as monthly returns.



12. Notwithstanding any other provision in this section concerning the time
within which an operator may file his return, in the case of any operator who
ceases to engage in a kind of business which makes him responsible for filing
returns under this section, such operator shall file a final return under
this section with the city clerk not more than one month after discontinuing
such business.



13. Where the same person has more than one hotel located within the city,
such person shall file separate returns for each such hotel.



14. In this return, the operator shall determine the value of any
consideration other than money received by him in connection with the
renting, leasing or letting of rooms in the course of his business and he
shall include such value in his return. Such determination shall be subject
to review and revision by the city in the manner hereinafter provided for the
correction of returns.



15. Where the operator is a corporation, the return filed on behalf of such
corporation shall be signed by the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer or by the properly accredited agent of such corporation.



16. The person filing the return herein provided for, shall at the time of
filing of such return, pay to the city clerk the amount of tax herein
imposed. All monies received by the city clerk for taxes herein imposed shall
be promptly deposited in a separate account designated as city of Flora
tourism fund.



17. The city may, upon separate written notices to a taxpayer, require the
taxpayer to prepare and file with the city clerk, on a form prescribed by the
city, within not less than sixty (60) days after receipt of the notice, an
annual information return for the tax year specified in the notice. Such
annual return to the city shall include a statement of gross receipts as
shown by the operator's last state income tax return. If the total receipts
of the business as reported in the state income tax return do not agree with
the gross receipts reported to the city for the same period, the operator
shall attach to his annual information return a schedule showing a
reconciliation of the two (2) amounts and the reasons for the difference. The
operator's annual information return to the city shall also include any
additional reasonable information which the city deems would be helpful in
determining the accuracy of the monthly, quarterly or annual tax returns by
such operator as hereinbefore provided for in this subsection (G).



18. If the annual information return required by this subsection (G) is not
filed when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable for a penalty equal
to one percent (1%) of the tax due from such taxpayer under this section
during the period to be covered by the annual return for each month or
fraction of a month until such return is filed as required with the penalty
to be assessed and collected in the same manner as any other penalty provided
for in this section.



19. If the monthly, quarter annual, or annual tax return and payment of tax
is not filed and paid when due, the taxpayer shall be liable for a penalty
equal to one and one-half percent (1 1/2%) per month or a fraction thereof of
the delinquent tax then due from the taxpayer until such return is filed and
tax paid with the penalty to be assessed and collected in the same manner as
any other penalty provided for in this section.



20. The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner or highest ranking manager
shall sign the annual return to certify the accuracy of the information
contained therein. Any person who wilfully signs the annual return containing
false or inaccurate information shall be guilty of perjury and punished
accordingly. The annual return form prescribed by the city shall include a
warning that the person signing the return may be liable for perjury.



21. The foregoing portion of this subsection (G) concerning the filing of an
annual information return shall not apply to an operator who is required to
file an income tax return with the United States government.



(H)   Tax Collection; Enforcement: The corporate authorities of the city
shall have all powers necessary to enforce the collection of the tax imposed
and collected by the city pursuant to this section including, but not limited
to, subpoena power and the power to create and enforce liens. No such lien
shall affect the rights of bona fide purchasers, mortgages, judgment
creditors or other lien holders who acquire their interests in such property
prior to the time a notice of such lien is placed on record in the office of
the recorder of deeds of Clay County. Any such lien placed on record shall
only act as a lien upon property located within the corporate boundaries of
the city. In creating a lien pursuant to this subsection, the procedures for
its notice and enforcement shall be the same as those provided for in the
"retailers' occupation tax act", as now or hereafter amended, for state tax
liens, and the recorder of deeds with whom a notice of such lien is filed
shall treat such lien as a state tax lien for recording purposes. (Ord.
97-1369, 6-2-1997)



(I)   City of Flora Tourism Committee: The city of Flora tourism committee
shall oversee and approve the administration and expenditure of taxes
pursuant to this article and subject to the further terms and conditions of
the ordinances of the city of Flora. The committee shall consist of eight (8)
members to be appointed by the mayor of the city of Flora, Illinois with the
approval of the Flora city council. The committee shall be constituted as
follows: At least one (1) member shall be an operator or owner of a motel,
hotel or bed and breakfast operation within the city of Flora, at least one
(1) member shall be a member of the city council of the city of Flora,
Illinois and the remainder of the committee members shall be members at
large. The term for each member shall be two (2) years commencing with their
respective appointments. (Ord. 03-1815, 10-20-2003; amd. Ord. 08-2179,
9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 13-2575, 7-1- 2013; amd. Ord. 16-2795, 12-5-2016)



      1.   The committee shall elect a chairperson, vice chairperson
and secretary. The chairperson, or in the absence of said chairperson the
vice chairperson shall preside all over all meetings of the committee. The
secretary shall maintain and record minutes of each meeting and submit copies
of the same to the city clerk of the city of Flora. The committee shall meet
periodically during the year to review the hotel/motel tax as imposed by the
city and the revenues generated therefrom. (Ord. 97-1369, 6-2-1997; amd. Ord.
08-2179, 9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 13-2575, 7-1-2013)



      2.   All meetings of the committee shall be open to the public
and a notice of each meeting shall be posted pursuant to the statutes of the
state of Illinois including notifying any news sources in the area pursuant
to the statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 03-1815, 10-20-2003; amd.
Ord. 08-2179, 9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 13-2575, 7-1-2013)



      3.   Three (3) members of the committee shall constitute a
quorum. The committee shall recommend to the city council of the city of
Flora, Illinois and with city council's approval, make such expenditures
provided that such expenditures shall be limited to promoting tourism and
conventions within the city or otherwise attracting non-resident overnight
visitors to the city. No funds shall be used to advertise for or otherwise
promote new competition in the hotel/motel business. (Ord. 03-1815,
10-20-2003; amd. Ord. 08-2179, 9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 13-2575, 7-1-2013)



      4.   All expenditures authorized by the committee and
recommended to the city council shall only be approved at a duly called
meeting with a published notice to the general public as heretofore provided,
and then by a vote of a majority of the members of the committee shall report
on or before the first Monday of each year to the city council as to the
status of the hotel/motel tax. Such report shall be in writing and shall
specify the purposes for which disbursements were made during the prior
calendar year, contain an itemized statement of all receipts, and a proposed
budget for the following year. (Ord. 97-1369, 6-2-1997; amd. Ord. 08-2179,
9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 13-2575, 7-1-2013)



(J)   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.



(K)   Severability Of Provisions: Should any provision of this section be
declared to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalid
provision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this
section and the provisions hereof shall be considered, and are hereby
declared, to be severable.



(L)   Inspection Of Books And Records: The city clerk, or any person
otherwise designated by the city, may enter the premises of any hotel or
motel for inspection and examination of books and records in order to
effectuate the proper administration of this section and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for
any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the city clerk or any other
duly authorized agent of the city in the discharge of his or her duties in
the performance of this section. It shall be the duty of every owner to keep
accurate and complete books and records to which the city clerk or other
authorized city official shall at all times have access, which books and
records shall be as described and set forth in subsection (F) of this
section. (Ord. 97-1369, 6-2-1997)



 


Notes

1 
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.

43 
See section 3-6-1 of this chapter.

44 
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.



CHAPTER 7
OIL AND GAS WELLS



3-7-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:



No person shall drill or commence to drill or operate an oil, gas, salt water
disposal or salt water injection well within the city, or work upon or assist
in the drilling or operating of an oil, gas, salt water disposal or salt
water injection well, without having first secured a permit therefor. (Ord.
82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-2: NUMBER OF WELLS:



Within the city there may be issued only one permit for one well in each
spacing or drilling unit specified by the rules and regulations of the
department of mines and minerals, state of Illinois. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-3: APPLICATION:



Any person desiring a permit for drilling or operating an oil, gas, salt
water disposal or salt water injection well shall apply to the city council.
The application shall be filed with the city clerk and be accompanied by a
deposit of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in cash or certified check, as an
inspection fee in case the permit is granted. Applications shall be made on
forms provided by the city, and shall be verified under oath by the applicant
or an authorized person in his behalf. A separate application shall be made
for each well. The application shall show the particular point where the well
is to be located. Copies of all oil and gas leases, salt water disposal or
injection agreements and drilling contracts which the applicant has with the
owners of land within the tract of land where the well is to be located
indicating the lands covered by the leases or agreements and contracts shall
be filed with the application. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-4: BOND:



The applicant for a permit to drill or operate an oil, gas, salt water
disposal or salt water injection well shall file a bond with a surety company
authorized to do business in Illinois as surety in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00). The bond shall be approved by the commissioner of
public health and safety and filed with the city clerk and shall be kept in
force as long as the oil, gas, salt water disposal or salt water injection
well it pertains to is in operation and until the well has been plugged as
required by the rules and regulations of the department of mines and
minerals, state of Illinois, and the tract on which the well was located has
been restored as hereinafter provided. The bond shall run to the city for the
benefit of the city, conditioned that if the permit is granted, the applicant
will comply with the terms and conditions of this chapter in the drilling of
the well. The bond shall provide that the applicant will restore the streets
and sidewalks in public places which may be disturbed in the operation, and
will clear the tract of all litter, machinery, derricks, buildings, oil and
other items used in drilling or producing operations whenever the well is
abandoned or operations discontinued and will pay the city for any damages
done to trees, sidewalks, paving or other public property and any increase in
the cost of insurance on any property owned by the city because of the
drilling or operating of such well; and will hold the city harmless from any
liability arising out of the granting of the permit. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-5: MULTIPLE APPLICANTS:



In case there are applications by more than one applicant filed with the city
clerk and pending at the same time for permits to drill in any area of land,
as defined in section 3-7-2 of this chapter, the application of the person
holding the greater area of land in the area by lease or contract with the
owner or owners for oil or gas well drilling thereon shall be granted, if
otherwise sufficient. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-6: WELLS DETRIMENTAL TO CITY:



The city council may refuse any application for a permit where, by reason of
the location of the proposed well and the character and value of the
permanent improvements already erected in that area of land or adjacent
thereto and the use to which the land and surroundings are adapted, or for
sanitary reasons, the drilling or operation of an oil, gas, salt water
disposal or salt water injection well would, in the judgment of the council,
be a serious detriment to the city and the welfare of its inhabitants. (Ord.
82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-7: CONTRACT WITH OWNER:



No permit shall be granted for drilling of a well except upon ground where
the applicant has a lease or contract with the owner granting permission to
drill the well. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-8: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:



If an application complies with the provisions of this chapter, the city
council may issue the permit. The permit shall specify the particular
location of the well to be drilled and such well shall not be drilled
elsewhere. If the permit is not granted, the applicant's deposit shall be
refunded. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-9: PERMIT TIME LIMIT:



A permit shall become inoperative without action by the council if actual
drilling of the well is not begun within thirty (30) days from the date the
permit is issued, or if drilling is discontinued for a period of thirty (30)
days, or if after production of oil or gas has begun, or the disposal or
injection of salt water has begun, the production, disposal or injection is
discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days. If a permit has become
inoperative, no drilling or operations shall be resumed without the issuance
of another permit. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-10: PAYMENT OF DAMAGES, INSURANCE PREMIUMS:



Every permittee under this chapter shall pay to the owner of any property the
extra or increased cost of any insurance because of the drilling or operation
of such well or wells. He shall also pay all property damages suffered by any
person from fire or the escape of salt water, brine or other fluids caused by
or originating from the operations connected with such well or wells, over
the amount of insurance collected thereon. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-11: RIGHTS OF OWNERS:



No permittee may enter upon or occupy any land for drilling or production
operations without the written consent of the owner. The permit issued under
this chapter does not limit the right of contract of any property owner with
respect to his own land. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-12: WELLS IN STREETS:



No person shall drill any oil, gas, salt water disposal or salt water
injection wells in any street or alley, or obstruct or close any street or
alley in any drilling or other operations, except by special, temporary
permit ordered by the city council. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-13: WASTE, SLUDGE WATER AND PITS:



No underground pits used for the storage of oil, wastewater, sludge water,
salt water, brine or other fluids may be constructed or used in the city,
except for the ordinary use of a slush pond in the drilling of a well. No
waste or sludge water shall be emptied into any sanitary sewer. Within thirty
(30) days after any oil, gas, salt water disposal or salt water injection
well drilling has been completed or has been abandoned as a dry or nonusable
hole, the slush pit shall be emptied and then filled with dirt and leveled as
required by the rules and regulations of the department of mines and
minerals, state of Illinois. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-14: CASINGHEAD GAS:



No permittee engaged in the drilling or operation of an oil or gas well
within the corporate limits of the city shall permit gas to escape into the
air and the same shall be burned from a torch or other similar means at a
distance of not less than ten feet (10') above the ground and then only so
long as the same does not, within the discretion of the city council,
constitute a health, fire or other hazard to the persons or property of those
within the vicinity of such well. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-15: TANKS AND WELL LOCATION:



No tanks for the storage of oil produced or for the storage of salt water,
brine or other fluids may be used, constructed or operated, in connection
with any well, with a capacity of more than two hundred ten (210) barrels
each and must be constructed and maintained as to be vapor tight. No wooden
or bolted tanks may be used for such purposes. Any oil or gas produced may be
transported outside the city limits by underground pipeline. A suitable
earthen wall shall be constructed around and enclosing all crude oil storage
tanks and tanks holding salt water, brine or other fluids and said wall shall
be capable of containing oil and all other fluids in a capacity greater than
the capacity of the storage tanks enclosed thereby. Said fire wall shall be
enclosed with a fence not less than six feet (6') in height and properly
built so as to keep persons and animals out of the enclosure with all gates
thereto to be kept locked when the permittee or his employees are not within
said enclosure. It is provided, however, that in unsubdivided areas the city
council, in its discretion, may waive the requirement for any fence or may
designate another type of fence to be erected. On any oil or gas well, the
pumping unit thereof shall be enclosed with a fence not less than six feet
(6') in height and properly built so as to keep persons and animals out of
the enclosure with all gates thereto to be kept locked when the permittee or
his employees are not within said enclosure. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-16: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS:



At the time of commencing to drill an oil, gas, salt water disposal or salt
water injection well under a permit from the city, a fire extinguisher or
fire extinguishers of such type and capacity as required by the fire chief of
the city must be placed on the tract by the permittee where the oil, gas,
salt water disposal or salt water injection well is to be drilled and said
fire extinguisher or fire extinguishers shall be kept on said premises in
good working order from the time an oil, gas, salt water disposal or salt
water injection well is commenced until it is completed as a producer or is
plugged as dry. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-17: SALT WATER AND OTHER IMPURITIES:



The permittee shall make adequate provisions for disposal of all salt water,
brine or other fluids and impurities which he may bring to the surface, such
disposal to be made in such manner as not to contaminate the water supply,
present or prospective, the city sanitary sewer system, or to injure surface
vegetation and must comply with the other sections of this chapter, and the
city council may prohibit the subsurface disposal of salt water and other
impurities in a well located within the city. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-18: RIGHT OF ENTRY:



Any officer or employee of the city designated for the purpose may enter upon
any premises covered by permit issued under this chapter to make inspections
to determine if the provisions of this code relating to such oil, gas, salt
water disposal or salt water injection well or wells, or to the health and
safety of persons and property in the city, are being complied with. (Ord.
82-572, 3-15-1982)



3-7-19: VIOLATIONS:



It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or neglect to
comply with any provision hereof irrespective of whether or not the verbage
of each section hereof contains a specific language that such violation or
neglect is unlawful and is an offense. Any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter, or of the provisions of a drilling or
operating permit issued pursuant hereto, or any condition of the bond filed
by the permittee pursuant to this chapter, or who shall neglect to comply
with the terms hereof shall be deeded guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), in the violation of
each separate provision of this chapter and of said permit and of said bond,
shall be considered a separate offense and each day's violation of each
separate provision thereof shall be considered a separate offense. In
addition to the foregoing penalties, it is further provided that the city
council, at a regular or special meeting thereof, may, upon ten (10) days'
written notice given to the permittee, revoke any permit issued under this
chapter if the permittee has been found to violate any provision of this
chapter. (Ord. 82-572, 3-15-1982)



CHAPTER 8
PEDDLERS; TRANSIENT MERCHANTS; ITINERANT VENDORS;
SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS



3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:



FOOD: Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale, in whole or in part, for
human consumption.



ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sales within the city of Flora who does not maintain within the city
an established office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service
center, or residence from which such business is conducted. "Itinerant
vendor" does not apply to any person who delivers tangible personal property
within the city who is fulfilling an order for such property which was
solicited or placed by mail or other means.



PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, firm, association or
other entity.



TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale
of goods, wares, or merchandise within the city of Flora and who, for the
purpose of conducting such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle,
structure of any kind, or vacant lot. (Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992)



3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:



It is a violation of this chapter for any person, either as principal or
agent, to conduct business as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor,
either on foot, from motor driven vehicles, or from any enclosed stand, room,
building, or structure of any kind within the corporate limits of the city
either upon private property owned or occupied by residents of the city or in
public places, without having first obtained in the manner herein set forth a
license so to do, provided however, that no such license shall be required
for selling of any of the following:



(A)   Goods, wares, merchandise, or other articles of personal property,
or services incident thereto, to persons other than the ultimate customer
thereof;



(B)   Raw produce that was raised or grown by the vendor;



(C)   Newspapers;



(D)   Subscriptions for future delivery of goods, wares, merchandise, or
other articles of personal property or incidental thereto when payment for
such items of personal property or services is required only upon
satisfactory delivery thereof;



(E)   Religious publications and articles sold or offered for sale without
material profit or financial gain to, and not as a means of livelihood for,
the vendor;



(F)   All activities involving sales that fall under the Flora chamber of
commerce's sponsorship; and



(G)   Yard sales, garage sales and rummage sales. (Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992)



3-8-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:



Every person desiring to obtain a license for the purpose of engaging in
temporary retail sales, except as exempted above, shall make application
therefor to the city clerk, said application to show the following
information, and such additional information as the city clerk shall request:



(A)   Name of applicant.



(B)   Address of applicant.



(C)   Name and address of applicant's employer.



(D)   Description of the goods, wares, merchandise, other articles of
personal property, or services incident to or in conjunction with the sales
of such personal property, that applicant desires to sell.



(E)   Proof of a current, valid permit issued by the Clay County health
department if the personal property the applicant wishes to sell is
considered to be "food" as defined in section 3-8-1 of this chapter. A copy
of such permit must be made as attachment to the application.



(F)   Dates on which applicant will commence and end temporary retail
sales pursuant to said license; in any event said period of time shall not
exceed one hundred fifty (150) continuous days of operation during any twelve
(12) month period from the date of application and the license so issued
shall set forth the dates upon which said applicant may operate pursuant to
said license.



(G)   Description of the means by which applicant intends to sell those
items as described under subsection (D) of this section, whether on foot, by
motor driven vehicle, or from an enclosed stand, room, building or structure
of any other kind.



Upon completion of the license application, payment to the city clerk of the
license fee as herein below provided, and approval of such application by the
zoning administrator of the city to ensure zoning and building compliance,
which said approval by the administrator shall be granted or denied within
seven (7) days of the date of said application, the city clerk shall issue a
license for the purposes set forth in said application. (Ord. 92-1112,
5-18-1992)



3-8-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:



The city clerk shall furnish to each person obtaining a license to
temporarily sell from a motor driven vehicle, or from an enclosed stand,
room, building, or structure of any other kind, an additional copy of said
license, which additional copy shall be prominently displayed on a plainly
visible portion of said vehicle, stand, room, building, or structure, and
shall be made available for inspection by the public upon reasonable request.
(Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992)



3-8-5: LICENSE FEES:



The fees charged for licenses issued under the terms of this chapter shall be
as follows:



(A)   "Food" vendors, as defined in section 3-8-1 of this chapter, shall
be granted a permit, beginning with the date shown on the application, and
shall be charged a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).



(B)   All other "transient merchants" and "itinerant vendors" shall pay a
fee of five dollars ($5.00) per day for the number of days indicated in said
application, provided, however, that the fee for any one license shall in no
event be less than twenty five dollars ($25.00).



(C)   All license fees shall be paid in advance upon issuance of the
license. (Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992)



3-8-6: ANNOYING PRACTICES:



It shall be unlawful for an transient merchant or itinerant vendor, even
though licensed hereunder, to enter any private dwelling without being
admitted into same by the occupant thereof, or to insist upon the showing or
sale of his goods or wares to any person after being requested not so to do,
or to annoy any person by importunities to purchase, or to obstruct any
sidewalk or street by the sale of offering for sale of his goods, wares,
merchandise. Articles of personal property, or services incident thereto, or
to make false representations or promises incident to the sale of said
personal property or services. (Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992)



3-8-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:



All licenses which may at any time be issued under this chapter shall be
subject to all of the provisions of this chapter, or of any other ordinances
and regulations of the city, which may be enforced during the period of such
license, or any portion of such. If any person so licensed shall violate any
provision of this chapter, or of any other ordinance or regulation in
relation to his license, his license may be revoked or forfeited, in the sole
discretion of the city council. (Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992)



3-8-8: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:



Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992; Ord. 11-2386, 1-3-2011)



3-8-9: SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS:



(A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a
canvasser or solicitor, calling at residences without the previous consent of
the occupant for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions or
business of any kind, or seeking for information or donations without first
having registered in the office of the city clerk. The registrant shall give
his complete identification, his signature, the name of his employer, the
nature of the products or services in which he is interested, the names of
the manufacturers of such products, or of the organization which he is
representing, and the proposed method of operation in the city.



(B)   Each registrant shall pay to the city clerk a registration fee of
five dollars ($5.00) for the period expiring seven (7) days after the date of
said registration.



(C)   Each applicant who shows evidence of good character and who pays the
fee provided for herein shall be furnished a certificate indicating that he
has registered and showing the dates covered by such registration.



Each person shall at all times while soliciting or canvassing in the city
carry upon his person the registration certificate and the same shall be
exhibited by such registrant whenever he is required to do so by any police
officer or by any person solicited.



(D)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to officers or
employees of the city, county, state or federal government, or any
subdivision thereof, when on official business.



(E)   Any such registration may be revoked by the mayor or the chief of
police because of any violation by the registrant of this chapter or of any
other code provision of the city, or of any state or federal law, or whenever
the registrant shall cease to possess the qualifications and character
required in this chapter for the original registration.



(F)   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the city by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, transient merchants or itinerant vendors of
merchandise, not having been requested or invited so to do by the owner or
owners, occupant or occupants of said private residences, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/or for the
purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is declared to
be a nuisance. (Ord. 92-1112, 5-18-1992)



3-8-10:    HOURS OF SOLICITATION: 



Solicitation within the city of Flora shall only occur between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.  There shall be no
solicitation on Sundays, State of Illinois holidays or national holidays. 
(Ord. 11-2386, 1-3-2011)



CHAPTER 9
POOLROOMS



3-9-1: DEFINITION; LICENSE REQUIRED:



A "poolroom" is defined as any place of public resort in which there is
located for use by the public two (2) or more tables used for playing pool,
billiards, bagatelle, pigeonhole or other similar game called by a different
name. No person shall keep or maintain a poolroom in which billiards,
bagatelle, pigeonhole, pool or any other tables or implements kept for a
similar purpose without having first obtained a license for such purpose 46 .
(Ord. 76-300, 3-1-1976, eff. 5-1-1976)



3-9-2: APPLICATION:



Application for license shall be verified by oath or affidavit, and contain
the following information:



(A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual, and in the case of a copartnership, of the persons entitled to
share in the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name
and address of such person.



(B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth; or if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.



(C)   The address of the place where the applicant proposes to operate.



(D)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for
a similar license on premises other than those described in the application,
and the disposition of such application.



(E)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony,
and is not disqualified to receive the license under this section. (1956
Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-3: PROHIBITED LICENSEES:



No license under this section shall be issued to:



(A)   Any person who is not a resident of the city or a citizen of the
United States.



(B)   Any person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community.



(C)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of
Illinois; or of being the keeper of a house of ill fame; or of pandering or
other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.



(D)   Any person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.



(E)   Any partnership, unless all of the members of the partnership are
qualified to obtain such license.



(F)   Any corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license for any
reason other than citizenship or residence within the city.



(G)   Any person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee.



(H)   Any person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is to be issued. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-4: FEE 1 :



The annual fee for such license is two hundred dollars ($200.00). If the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 04-1858, 7-19-2004, eff. 8-1-2004)



3-9-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:



Any conservator of the peace has the power to enter upon the licensed
premises at any time, to determine whether any provision of this code is
being violated. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-6: RENEWAL:



Any licensee may renew his license at expiration, provided he is then
qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which renewal is sought
are suitable for such purpose. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-7: TRANSFER OF LOCATION:



The location of the licensee may be changed only upon the written permission
of the mayor. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-8: CLOSING HOURS:



No establishment operating under a license issued for the operation of
billiard, bagatelle, pigeonhole, pool or any other tables in which implements
are kept or used for a similar purpose in any place of public resort shall be
open between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight Saturday and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon the following Sunday. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-9: GAMBLING:



No licensee shall permit any gambling in the premises for which such license
is issued. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-10: REVOCATION:



The mayor may revoke any license issued hereunder for violation of any
provision of this chapter. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-11: LIMIT OF LICENSES:



There shall not be in existence at any one time more than three (3) licenses
issued under this chapter. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



3-9-12: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:



Every licensee shall frame and hang his license in a conspicuous place at the
licensed premises. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.05)



 


Notes

46 
65 ILCS 5/11-42-2.

1 
For license fee in an establishment with one pool table only see subsection
3-3-2(B) of this title.



CHAPTER 10
TAXICABS



3-10-1: DEFINITION:



The term "taxicab" as used in this chapter means any vehicle used to carry
passengers for hire but not operating on a fixed route. (1956 Code, Sec.
13.03)



3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:



No person shall engage in the business of operating a taxicab in the city
without first having secured a license therefor. The application for such
license shall state the name of the applicant, the intended place of business
and the number of cabs to be operated. If the applicant is a corporation, the
names and addresses of the president and secretary shall be given 48 . (1956
Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-3: CHARACTER OF APPLICANT:



No license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a person of
good character or who has been convicted of a felony; nor shall a license be
issued to or held by any corporation if any officer thereof would be
ineligible for a license. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-4: FEE:



The annual fee, payable in advance, for a taxicab license is thirty dollars
($30.00) plus five dollars ($5.00) for each additional taxicab operated by
the licensee. Whenever the number of cabs so operated is increased during the
license year, the licensee shall notify the clerk and pay the additional fee.
(Ord. 75-251, 4-21-1975)



3-10-5: TAGS:



The clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for each cab covered by the
license. The tag or sticker shall be displayed in a prominent place on the
taxicab while it is in use, and may be transferred to any taxicab put into
service to replace one withdrawn from service. The licensee shall notify the
clerk of the motor number and state license number of each cab and of the
corresponding municipal tag or sticker number. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-6: VEHICLES:



No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears a state license. No cab shall be
operated unless it is equipped with proper brakes, lights, tires, horn,
muffler, rear vision mirror, and windshield wiper in good condition. The
chief of police shall inspect every taxicab as often as may be necessary for
the enforcement of this section. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-7: NAME ON CAB:



Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on each side, in letters readable
from a distance of twenty feet (20'), the name of the licensee operating it.
If more than one cab is operated by a licensee, each cab shall be designated
by a different number, and such number also shall so appear on each side of
such cab. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-8: DRIVERS:



No person shall drive a taxicab unless he is licensed as a chauffeur. A
driver of a taxicab, while on duty, shall not drink any intoxicating liquor,
or use any profane or obscene language, or shout or call to prospective
passengers, or disturb the peace in any way. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-9: INSURANCE:



No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond or public
liability policy as required by statute. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-10: UNLAWFUL USE:



No person shall knowingly permit any taxicab to be used in the perpetration
of a crime or misdemeanor 49 . (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-11: PASSENGERS:



The driver of a taxicab shall accept as a passenger any person who seeks to
so use the taxicab, provided such person is not admitted to a taxicab
occupied by a passenger without the consent of the passenger. (1956 Code,
Sec. 13.03)



3-10-12: ROUTE:



The driver shall take his passenger to his destination by the most direct
available route from the place where the passenger enters the cab. (1956
Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-13: CABSTANDS:



The chief of police, in his discretion, may designate appropriate and
sufficient cabstands for the use of each licensee. Each cabstand, so
designated, shall be appropriately located by signs erected under the
supervision of the chief of police. No person shall park any vehicle other
than a licensed taxicab in any cabstand. (1956 Code, Sec. 13.03)



3-10-14: NUMBER OF LICENSES:



No more than two (2) taxicab licenses shall be issued or outstanding and in
force at any one time. (Ord. 80-479, 3-17-1980)



 


Notes

48 
65 ILCS 5/11-42-4, 5/11-42-6; 625 ILCS 5/3-611.

49 
625 ILCS 5/7-317.



CHAPTER 11
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS



3-11-1: FAIR HOUSING PRACTICE; DECLARATION OF POLICY:



In furthering the policy of the state of Illinois as expressed in its
constitution and other laws, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the
city in the exercise of the city's policy and regulatory powers for the
protection of the public safety, for the health, morals, safety, and welfare
of the persons residing in the city, and for the maintenance and promotion of
commerce, industry and good government in the city to secure to all persons
living, working or desiring to live or work in Flora a fair opportunity to
purchase, lease, rent or occupy real estate without discrimination based on
race, color, religion or national origin. (Ord. 88-910, 4-18-1988)



3-11-2: DEFINITIONS:



For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed in this section:



DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: To differentiate in treatment between
individuals or groups of individuals on the basis of color, geographical or
national ancestry or origin, race, or religion, or any combination thereof,
or on the friends or associates of an individual or group of individuals.



HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure or portion thereof
which is used or occupied or is maintained, arranged or designed to be used
or occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human
beings.



REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any licensed real estate broker, any licensed real estate
salesman, or any person who as an employee or agent or otherwise engages in
the management or operation of any real property.



REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building or structure within the
city limits.



UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICE: The commission of any act prohibited hereunder.
(Ord. 88-910, 4-18-1988)



3-11-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:



It shall be an unfair housing practice and unlawful for any real estate
broker or agent thereof:



(A)   To publish, circulate, issue or display or cause to be published,
circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement,
sign or other writing of any kind relating to the sale, rental or leasing of
any real property within the city which will indicate or express any
limitation or discrimination in the sale, rental or leasing of such real
property, predicated upon race, color, religion, ancestry, or national origin
of any prospective buyer, lessee or renter of such property;



(B)   To exploit or overcharge any person for real property in the city
because of race, color, religion, ancestry or national origin;



(C)   To solicit for sale, lease or a listing for sale or lease any real
property within the city on the grounds of loss of value due to present or
prospective entry into a neighborhood of any person or persons of any
particular race, color, religion, ancestry or national origin;



(D)   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designated to induce any owner of any housing accommodation in the
city to sell or lease his property because of any present or prospective
change in the race, color, religion, ancestry or national origin of persons
in the neighborhood;



(E)   To make any misrepresentation concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any real property for the purpose
of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or listing for sale of any real
property by representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons
of any particular race, religion, color or national origin in the area will
or may result in the lowering of property values in the block, neighborhood
or the area in which the property is located;



(F)   To sell, rent or offer to sell or rent a real property on terms,
conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons of race, color,
religion or national origin;



(G)   To refuse to negotiate for, enter into, or perform any sale or rent
of any real property because of race, color, religion or national origin of
any party to such sale or rent or of any member of the family of such party
or any person using or occupying or intending to use or occupy such real
property or for any person using or occupying any real property in an area in
which such real property is located;



(H)   To represent to any person that any real property is not available
for inspection, purchase, sale, lease or occupancy which in fact it is so
available or otherwise to withhold property from any person because of race,
color, religion or national origin;



(I)   To refuse to receive or fail to transmit a bona fide offer for
purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any real property because of race,
color, religion or national origin of the person making such offer;



(J)   To discriminate, or to participate in the discrimination, in
connection with borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting
mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase,
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any real
property in the city because of race, color, religion, ancestry or national
origin;



(K)   To aid, abet, incite or coerce a person to commit an unlawful real
estate practice;



(L)   To deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of copies of any
listing of real property in the city to any person because of race, color,
religion, ancestry or national origin;



(M)   To enter into a listing agreement which prohibits the inspection,
sale, lease or occupancy of real property to any person because of race,
color, religion or national origin;



(N)   To knowingly and wilfully interfere with the performance of the duty
or the exercise of the power as granted hereunder. (Ord. 88-910, 4-18-1988)



3-11-4: PROCEDURES:



(A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall file a written complaint setting forth his grievances
with the city administrator within thirty (30) days after the alleged
offense. Such complaint shall state the name and address of the complainant
and the person or persons against whom the complaint is brought and also
state the alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter and
the names and addresses of any persons that may have knowledge concerning the
alleged facts.



(B)   After the filing of any complaint the city administrator shall make
a prompt investigation in connection therewith and if the city administrator
shall determine after such investigation that probable cause exists for the
allegations of the complaint he shall immediately endeavor to eliminate the
unlawful practice complained of by conference, conciliation and persuasion.
In case of failure to so eliminate such practice or, in cases where in the
judgment of the city administrator circumstances so warrant, he shall cause
to be issued and served upon all parties notice of a full hearing of the
complaint and the time and place of such hearing. All said notices shall be
accompanied with a copy of a complaint. Any person charged with the violation
of the sections of this chapter shall have the right to file an answer to the
complaint, to appear at the hearing in person, and to be represented by
counsel, to submit testimony, and to cross examine all witnesses. The
complainant shall also be allowed to present testimony in person, or cross
examine witnesses, and may be represented by counsel.



(C)   Such hearings shall be conducted by the entire city council or a
quorum thereof upon due and reasonable notice to all parties. The mayor shall
have the power to administer oath and take sworn testimony.



(D)   At the conclusion of such hearing the city council shall render a
written report with a recommendation which shall also be served by mail upon
the complainant and the party or parties charged. No report shall be delayed
more than sixty (60) days after the first issuance of notice or commencement
of a hearing. (Ord. 88-910, 4-18-1988)



3-11-5: ENFORCEMENT:



The mayor shall be empowered at the conclusion of the proceedings as
described herein, upon authority of the city council, to direct the attorney
for the city to do any one or more of the following:



(A)   To institute or prosecute proceedings to enforce against any person
found in violation of this chapter.



(B)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:



1. For an order restraining any person from violating any provision of this
chapter;



2. For such other and future relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this chapter and for the elimination of violations hereof.
(Ord. 88-910, 4-18-1988)



3-11-6: PENALTY:



Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 88-910, 4-18-1988)



CHAPTER 12
RECYCLING CENTERS



3-12-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; DEFINITION:



No person shall operate a recycling center without having first obtained the
appropriate special use permit or other permit as issued by the appropriate
zoning authorities and pursuant to the zoning ordinance of the city and
without having first obtained a license therefor in compliance with this
chapter. As used in this chapter, "recycling center" shall mean any location,
whether operated for profit or not, where the public is asked to bring any
materials to be donated or left to be recycled, reclaimed, processed or
reused, including, but not limited to, newspapers, bottles, metal cans, and
used clothing, furniture, automobiles and automobile parts including tires,
building materials, machinery, metal, rags and tin ware. (Ord. 94-1195,
4-18-1994)



3-12-2: APPLICATION AND FEE:



Applications for recycling licenses shall be made to the city clerk on a form
provided by the clerk. The application shall show the location of the
proposed recycling center, the name and address of the owner or operator and
a telephone number where the owner or operator or an agent of the owner or
operator can be reached twenty four (24) hours of the day. The application
will show the location of the proposed center, the size and location of
access and parking, and the location and kind of containers or receptacles
proposed to be used. The permit fee may be waived by the city clerk if the
recycling center is a not for profit organization in recognizing no profits
or income from the sale of the recycled items. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-3: INVESTIGATION; APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:



Upon receipt of an application for license under this chapter, the clerk
shall furnish copies of the same to the chief of police, building inspector,
zoning administrator, city health official and fire chief for investigation
and approval:



(A)   The chief of police shall approve the application only if he finds
that the applicant's business responsibility and moral character are
satisfactory and that all agents or officers of applicant, if any, who will
take part in the operation of such business are of good character and
reputation and capable of operating the business in a manner consistent with
public health, safety and good morals.



(B)   The building inspector shall approve the application only if he
finds that any proposed or existing buildings or equipment with which the
recycling center is being or is to be operated conform to the requirements of
the building code and the requirements of this chapter, all other ordinances
of the city and the laws of the state.



(C)   The fire chief shall approve the application only if he finds that
the proposed or existing premises and equipment conform to the requirements
of this chapter, all other ordinances of the city and all applicable fire
prevention laws.



(D)   The application shall be submitted to the city zoning administrator
and said zoning administrator shall approve the application only if the
administrator finds the proposed recycling center and the use thereof does
not violate any existing zoning ordinances and conforms with the existing
locations and buildings and neighborhoods.



(E)   The city health official shall approve the application only if the
official finds that any proposed recycling center will not create a health
hazard or endanger any individuals in the surrounding neighborhood and area.



(F)   If a recommendation for approval is obtained from the chief of
police, building inspector, zoning administrator, city health official and
fire chief, the clerk shall present the application to the city council for
its review. The city council may approve or disapprove the application in
accordance with the recommendations of the above, and after it has
independently reviewed and investigated the application. (Ord. 94-1195,
4-18-1994)



3-12-4: PARKING AND ACCESS:



Each recycling center shall have a paved or gravel area set aside for parking
and access, of not less than two hundred (200) square feet or eighteen (18)
square meters. Part or all of a parking lot used only occasionally for
parking for other purposes may be counted as part or all of the required two
hundred (200) square feet or eighteen (18) square meters. (Ord. 94-1195,
4-18-1994)



3-12-5: CONTAINERS:



Each recycling center shall have containers with firmly closing lids, no
smaller than fifty five (55) gallons or two hundred eight liters (208 l). All
containers and lids shall be secured to prevent any container, lid or
contents from blowing around during normal winds. Trailers may be used for
containers if the trailers conform to all of the requirements of this
chapter. Each container or trailer shall be clearly marked with lettering not
less than two inches (2") or five centimeters (5 cm) high, stating the
contents to be placed in that container or trailer. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-6: SIGN REQUIRED:



Each recycling center shall have a clearly lettered sign, stating the
materials requested to be left for recycling, the name of the operator or
owner of the recycling center, and a telephone number where the owner,
operator or agent of the owner or operator may be reached at any time. If
there is an attendant at the center at any time, the sign shall state when
the attendant will be present. The information may be placed on a container
or trailer or on any wall or separate sign. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-7: LITTER AND TRASH PROHIBITED:



No person shall place any litter, garbage or trash at any recycling center,
and no person shall place any materials in any recycling container except the
materials named on the outside of the container. No person shall leave any
materials outside of any container at a recycling center. Each recycling
center owner or operator shall provide containers with enough capacity and
frequent enough pickups to prevent any materials from being left outside
because the containers are full. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-8: FENCING:



In the event the application states that some of the recycling material will
be stored outside of containers, then in that event, the premises, area,
piece or parcel of land licensed and used as the recycling center shall have
not more than two (2) entrances and two (2) exits each, of which shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15') in width at the perimeter at the premises. Such
premises, area, pieces or parcels of land shall be enclosed with either a
solid nontransparent wall or fence or link weave steel wire or combination
thereof with a minimum height of seven feet (7') from the ground level,
excepting for entrances and exits. The fence or wall shall not contain any
poster or advertising of any kind, except one sign of the licensee not
exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in size. Any fence or buffer created
shall be approved by the zoning administrator and building official and
conform to the surrounding neighborhood area. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-9: STOLEN GOODS:



Every keeper of a recycling center who shall receive or be in possession of
any goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen,
shall upon demand produce such article or thing to any member of the police
department for examination. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-10: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:



It shall be the obligation of the recycling center to keep records of all
incoming items including the name of the seller, owner, person delivering the
items, amount, type of item and price paid for the item. Said records shall
be open to and subject to inspection by the chief of police or any other city
official so designated by the mayor. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-11: INSPECTION OF PREMISES, BOOKS AND RECORDS:



Any applicant for such a permit shall consent to an inspection of the
premises, books and records by the chief of police, building inspector, fire
chief, zoning administrator or any other city official appointed by the mayor
to review the premises. Furthermore, said recycling center shall, at the
direction of the fire chief, keep sufficient area cleared for the purposes of
fighting fires within the recycling center and the recycling center area and
shall not cause said driveways or pathways to become congested with debris or
items of recycling which prevent firefighting. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-12: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS:



It shall be the duty and obligation of the licensee to comply with the
applicable state and federal laws and the rules and regulations of any agency
thereof as far as operation of the recycling center. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



3-12-13: PENALTY:



Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which an offense occurs or continues. Furthermore, if any person
violates any provisions of this chapter within twelve (12) calendar months or
said licensees continues to violate any provisions of this chapter after
being notified of said violations by the city, the mayor may revoke or
suspend the license. In the event the mayor deems it necessary to suspend or
revoke the license, the city clerk shall notify the licensee of the
suspension or revocation and licensee shall have five (5) days to file a
written request for hearing with the mayor. Upon receipt of the written
request for hearing, the mayor shall call a hearing whereby the licensee may
appear before the mayor. The mayor may, at his or her discretion continue the
suspension or revocation after the hearing or dismiss the revocation or
suspension. (Ord. 94-1195, 4-18-1994)



CHAPTER 13
ADULT USES



3-13-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:




It is the intent and purpose of the city council to regulate uses which,
because of their nature, are recognized as having serious objectionable,
operational characteristics, particularly when several of them are
concentrated in a particular area, thereby having a deleterious effect upon
the adjacent areas. Regulation of such uses is necessary to ensure that these
adverse effects will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the
surrounding neighborhood. The primary control or regulation is for the
purpose of preventing a concentration of these users in any one area. (Ord.
04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-2: DEFINITIONS:




The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless otherwise provided for:





ADULT USES: The following words, terms and phrases shall be considered an
"adult use":




Adult Bookstore: A public or private establishment which has a substantial or
significant portion of its stock in trade books, magazines, films for sale or
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or any other coin
operated means, and other periodicals which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating
to "specified sexual activities", or "specified anatomical areas", or an
establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such
materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
presence of video preview or coin operated booths, the exclusion of minors
from the establishment's premises, or any other factors showing that the
establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.



Adult Entertainment Cabaret: A public or private establishment or facility
which features: a) topless dancers, strippers, erotic male/female dancers; b)
entertainers, employees or patrons which display "specified anatomical
areas"; c) entertainers, employees or patrons who by reason of their
appearance or conduct perform in a manner which is designed primarily to
appeal to the sexual interest of the patron; or d) entertainers, employees or
patrons who engage in explicit simulation of "specified sexual activities".



Adult Entertainment Facility: A public or private striptease club, facility
or establishment or pornographic movie theater which offers to its patrons
the dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit material, live shows,
or other form of exhibitions, or an adult bookstore or adult video store
whose primary business is the commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution
of sexually explicit material, shows, videos, or other live or taped
exhibitions.



Adult Theater: An enclosed building routinely used for presenting material by
motion picture or video, and having as a dominant theme material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", for observation by patrons, employees or members therein.




EMPLOYEE: Any person retained to perform work or subject to dismissal or
termination from work at the adult use establishment.





PATRON: A person who enters into a business or establishment, either by
paying some form of monetary compensation or a membership fee, as a customer
or private member, for the purpose of receiving services provided by a
business or establishment located upon such premises.





SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following areas:




(A) Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair, unless completely covered
with nontransparent material or cloth;



(B) Buttock or anus, unless covered at minimum by a G-string bikini bottom; or



(C) Female breast, unless the areola is completely covered with
nontransparent material no less than three inches (3") in diameter (normally
referred to as a "pastie").



(D) Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely and
opaquely covered.




SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Prostitution or promotion of prostitution,
dissemination of obscenity, sale, distribution or display of harmful material
to a minor, sexual performance by a minor, possession or distribution of
child pornography, public lewdness, indecent exposure, indecency with a
child, engaged in organized criminal activity, sexual assault, molestation of
a child, gambling, or distribution of a controlled substance, or any offense
under the criminal offense section of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.





SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:




(A) Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;



(B) Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation or flagellation;



(C) Fondling or other sexual or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, anus, buttock or female breast; or



(D) Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities set
forth in subsections (A) through (C) of this definition. (Ord. 04-1881,
9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)



3-13-3: REGULATED USES:




Adult uses subject to the provisions of this chapter include, but are not
limited to, any of the following:




Adult bookstore.



Adult entertainment cabaret.



Adult entertainment facility.



Adult theater. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)



3-13-4: LIMITATIONS ON ADULT USES:



(A)   General Restrictions: Adult uses shall be permitted within the city
limits subject to the following restrictions:



1. An adult use shall not be permitted or allowed within one thousand feet
(1,000') of any premises upon which an establishment or business is licensed
to sell, dispense or deliver alcoholic beverages.



2. An adult use shall not be permitted within one thousand feet (1,000') from
the nearest property line of the following zoning districts, as described in
the zoning ordinances of the city of Flora: R-1 single-family residence
district, R-2 single-family residence district, R-3 single-family residence
district, R-4 single-family residence district, MF-1 multiple-family
residence district, mobile home park, C-1 central commercial district, C-2
neighborhood commercial district, and all variations of such districts as
hereafter amended in the zoning code of the city of Flora, Illinois.
Furthermore, an adult use shall not be permitted or allowed within one
thousand feet (1,000') from any existing residence located in an A-1
agricultural district, A-2 corporate agricultural district, I-1 general
industrial district, I-2 industrial park district.



3. An adult use shall not be permitted or allowed within one thousand feet
(1,000') of a school, public park, playground, daycare center or facility,
public housing property, church or other religious facility or institution,
government building, institution of higher education, cemetery, area
dedicated for public assemblies or an airport.



(B)   Zoning Restriction: Any facility, building or structure used for an
adult use shall be subject to the zoning restrictions as set forth in the
zoning ordinances of the city of Flora and as hereinafter amended. (Ord.
04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)



3-13-5: SIGNS AND OTHER VISIBLE MESSAGES:




Any premises, establishment, building or property upon which an adult use is
located shall display exterior signs, billboards or messages in the following
manner:




(A)   Name And Description: Signs, billboards or messages shall only
display the name and description of material or services of the adult use at
that location; and



(B)   Prohibited Content: Signs, billboards or messages displayed shall
not include any graphic, pictorial depiction, photograph, silhouette, or
drawing of material or services of the adult use at that location; and



(C)   Location: Signs, billboards or messages relating to the adult use
shall be displayed on flush wall against the building, structure or location
where the adult use business is located. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff.
10-21-2004)



3-13-6: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES:




For the purpose of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property
line of the premises upon which the adult use is located to the nearest
property line of the area stated in subsection 3-13-4(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-7: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:




No owner or person in control of an adult use shall permit or allow the
observation of any message or material depicting, describing or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" by display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening visible from the outside of
the premises upon which the adult use is located or from any public way.
(Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-8: REGISTRATION:



(A)   Information Required: The owner of a building or premises, his agent
for the purpose of managing, controlling or collecting rents, or any other
person managing or controlling the facility or premises in which an adult use
is located upon shall register with the city clerk the following information:



1. The name, address, telephone number, date of birth, social security
number, Illinois driver's license number of the manager, owner or
representative who will be in charge of the day to day operations of the
adult use;



2. The address of the premises on which the adult use will be located;



3. The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the premises upon which the
adult use is located, including name(s) of all beneficial owner(s) and
trustees if the property is in a land trust;



4. The name of the adult use establishment;



5. The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s), beneficial owner(s) or the
major stockholder(s) of the adult use;



6. The date that the adult use shall be open to the public;



7. The nature of the adult use in detail;



8. The names and addresses of all employees, entertainers, or persons who
will work in the adult use establishment or facility. The person in control
or manager of the adult use operations shall be required to maintain a
current and updated list of such information with the city clerk;



9. Any of the following, including the date of the charge and disposition of
the cases: any prior felony convictions, charges for sexual related offenses,
specified criminal activities or crimes against another person committed by
the owner, manager, person in control of and/or representative of the adult
use establishment.



(B)   Compliances: No person in control of, owner or agent of an adult use
shall allow or permit the adult use establishment to be opened for business,
operated, or to admit patrons, private members or the public upon the adult
use establishment, without first having complied with the provisions of this
section.



(C)   Violation: If a violation of this section occurs, the city may take
action, in addition to the penalties of this chapter, to file civil
proceedings it deems necessary to secure an injunction in order to prevent or
prohibit the adult use. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)



3-13-9: ENTERTAINMENT:




No person in control, owner, manager, or employee of an adult use shall
permit or allow any male or female entertainer, employee, patron, member or
agent to engage in the exposure of specified anatomical areas or any
specified sexual activity upon the adult use premises. (Ord. 04-1881,
9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-10: ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES:




No owner, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of any adult
use shall engage in any specified criminal activity, criminal activity or
conduct, or permit any other person to engage in any specified criminal
activity or conduct, in or about the adult use establishment which is
prohibited by any ordinance of the city, law of the state, or the United
States. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-11: AGE RESTRICTION:



(A)   Under Twenty One: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to be permitted or allowed to enter, remain within
or upon the premises in which an adult use is located.



(B)   Employees: It shall be unlawful for the owner, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of any adult use to employ in any capacity
within the adult use establishment any person who is under the age of twenty
one (21) years.



(C)   Acceptable Identification: Only the following types of
identification shall be acceptable for purposes of determining whether a
person is old enough to enter an adult use establishment: vehicle operator's
license, state photo identification card for nondrivers, visa or passport,
and/or military identification card. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff.
10-21-2004)



3-13-12: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:




No person shall sell, or offer for sale, possess or display for sale within
the corporate limits of the city, any alcoholic liquor upon the premises,
including the parking lot area. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-13: RESPONSIBILITY OF MANAGER, OWNER AND/OR REGISTERED PARTY:




Every act or omission constituting a violation of any provision of this
chapter, or this code, by any patron, member, employee, entertainer, or
representative of the adult use facility or business shall be deemed to be
the act(s) or omission(s) of the owner, employer, manager and/or agent of the
adult use establishment and shall be punishable under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-14: HOURS OF OPERATION:



(A)   Open For Business: An adult use establishment shall be permitted to
remain open for business or allow or permit patrons or members to remain upon
the premises between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to one o'clock
(1:00) A.M., the following day on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, and Saturday, and on Sunday, from one o'clock (1:00) P.M. until
eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M.



(B)   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to keep open for business, to
admit the public or permit patrons to remain within or upon the premises of
an adult use establishment other than the hours as set out in subsection (A)
of this section. If any person, other than the persons excepted under
subsection (C) of this section, is found to be within or upon the adult use
establishment more than fifteen (15) minutes after the required closing time,
the person, along with the owner, manager or person in control of the adult
use establishment, will be subject to a violation of this section.



(C)   Exception: This subsection does not apply to the owner, manager, or
person in control of the adult use establishment, or an employee who is
performing cleaning or maintenance activities necessary for the operation of
the establishment. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)



3-13-15: HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS:




All premises, structures and/or facilities in which an adult use is located
shall be in compliance at all times with the city building, fire, and zoning
ordinances, and all state and federal laws pertaining to health, sanitation
and public safety. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-16: INSPECTION:



(A)   Right Of Entry: The building code enforcement officer, fire
department and police department shall have the authority to enter upon any
premises upon which an adult use is located in order to enforce the
ordinances of the city, laws of the state or federal laws pertaining to the
health, safety or welfare of the public to determine whether any such laws
are being violated, and to examine the operations and facilities used upon
the premises.



(B)   Violation: A person who operates or controls an adult use or his
agent or employee violates this chapter if he refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)



3-13-17: SEVERABILITY:




If any provision of this chapter or the application of any provision to any
item in this chapter is held invalid, the invalidity of that provision or
application shall not affect any of the other provisions or the application
of those provisions to other sections in this chapter or within this code.
(Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




3-13-18: PENALTY:




Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that a violation continues. All violators of
this chapter are hereby determined to be a nuisance which may be abated or
enjoined by the city. Nothing in this chapter shall exempt the city or any
person from seeking civil remedies against any person who is in violation of
this chapter. In the event the city incurs any costs in the enforcement of
this chapter, including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs, or
otherwise, the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the same costs by
the offending party regardless of whether court action is used by the city to
enforce this chapter. (Ord. 04-1881, 9-20-2004, eff. 10-21-2004)




CHAPTER 14
RAFFLES



3-14-1:  LICENSE REQUIRED: 



No person, organization or entity may conduct any raffle except in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter after obtaining a license from the city. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-2:  DEFINITIONS: 



The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:



 


BUSINESS ORGANIZATION:

 
A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who have
joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
interests of a community.


CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION:
 
An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.


 



 



 




EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION:

 
An organization or institution organized and operated to provide systematic
instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to schools and
institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and intensity
with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.


FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION:
 
An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary interest of
which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide assistance
to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of government by
caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the government.


LABOR ORGANIZATION:
 
An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.


LOTTERY:
 
Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by chance
among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to win
such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.


NET PROCEEDS:
 
The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable sums expended
for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable operating expenses
incurred as a result of operating a raffle.


NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION:
 
An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for profit
basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the operation.


RAFFLE:
 
A form of lottery conducted by an organization licensed under this article,
in which:


 




 



 



 
(A) The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or
by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the
winning chance; and


 
(B) The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some other
method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part of
persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.


RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION:
 
Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for the purpose of
religious worship.


VETERANS' ORGANIZATION:
 
An organization or association comprised of members of which substantially
all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or widowers of
veterans or family members of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to
promote the welfare of its members and to provide assistance to the general
public in such a way as to confer a public benefit.  (Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



 



3-14-3:  APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE: 



(A)   Licenses may be issued to a bona fide nonprofit religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans' organization
which has been in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years
immediately before making application for a license and which has had during
that entire five (5) year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying
out their objective.



(B)   The applicant must specify the areas within the city in which raffle
chances will be sold or issued, the time period during which raffle chances
will be sold or issued, the time of determination of winning chances and the
location or locations at which winning chances will be determined.



(C)   The license application must contain a sworn statement of the
presiding officer that the organization is qualified to hold a license under
the provisions of this chapter.



(D)   A license shall be valid only for the specified number of raffles
during a period not to exceed one year. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-4:  LICENSE FEES:



(A)   The license fee for a one time raffle event issued under the terms
of this chapter shall be twenty dollars ($20.00).



(B)   The license fee for an unlimited number of raffle events issued
under the terms of this chapter shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
calendar year.



(C)   When all of the requirements of this chapter have been met, the
license shall be issued by the city clerk.



(D)   The city council of the city of Flora, Illinois may waive any fees
for the issuance of any one time raffle event. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-5:  LICENSE ISSUE RESTRICTIONS: 



No such license shall be issued to:



(A)   Any person that has been convicted of a felony.



(B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.



(C)   Any person who is not of good moral character.



(D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection (A),
(B) or (C) of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest,
or in which such a person is active or employed.



(E)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated
or not.



(F)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this section is to participate in the management or operation of the
raffle as defined in this chapter.



(G)   Any applicant which is not in compliance with the laws of the state
of Illinois, United States Government or the ordinances of the city of Flora,
Illinois shall not receive a raffle ticket. Included herewith are
organizations which are incorporated and must be in good standing with the
state of Illinois. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-6:  CONDUCT OF RAFFLES: 



The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:



(A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.



(B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.



(C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.



(D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also
licensed under this chapter.



(E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the areas specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the licenses.



(F)   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the conducting of raffles or chances. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-7:  RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND: 



All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of
a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in the sum of an amount determined by the city clerk in
favor of the organization conditioned upon his honesty and the performance of
his duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the licensing authority not less than thirty (30) days prior to
its cancellation. The city clerk may waive this bond requirement by including
a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization provided that a
unanimous vote of the members of the license organization has approved a
waiver of the raffles manager's bond. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-8:  RECORDS:



(A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
the records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the
recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment.



(B)   Gross receipts from the operation of a raffle program shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization pursuant to license therefor issued by the department of revenue
of the state of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization
shall have separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operations of raffles shall not
be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.



(C)   Records shall be preserved for three (3) years and the organization
shall make available the records relating to the operation of raffles for
public inspection at reasonable times and places. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-9:  ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:



(A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes and merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00).



(B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded in a single raffle
shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).



(C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).



(D)   The maximum period for which chances may be issued or sold is three
(3) months. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-10:  [PROCESSING APPLICATIONS]: 



The city clerk shall refer all applications to the police department and city
administrator for review or investigation of the representations in the
application. The city clerk shall issue and finalize the application within
thirty (30) days of application. 



(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)



3-14-11: PENALTY: 




Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be an offense
punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. A separate offense
shall be committed for each day a violation exists. In addition thereto, any
violator of the provisions of this chapter may be enjoined from the conduct
constituting the violation. 





(Ord. 08-2132, 2-4-2008)




CHAPTER 15
GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS



SECTION:



3-15-1:      Gasoline Service Station Definition and Usages



3-15-2:      Construction or Alteration of Existing Gasoline Stations



3-15-3:      Responsibility for Conformity



3-15-4:      Safety and Maintenance



3-15-5:      Abandonment



3-15-6:      Appeals



3-15-7:      Penalties



3-15-1:   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION DEFINITION AND USAGES:



The words “Gasoline Service Stations” as used in this code are hereby
defined to mean any premises used for the dispensing, sale or offer for sale
of automobile and other vehicle fuels and oils.  (Ord. 11-2408, 4-18-2011)



3-15-2:   CONSTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF EXISTING GASOLINE STATIONS: 



All gasoline service stations erected after the effective date of this code
or any existing gasoline service stations as of the effective date of this
code shall comply with all of the rules and regulations of the city code,
including but not limited to the zoning ordinances, building codes or other
ordinances applicable to the construction, maintenance, upkeep, placement and
licensing of said business whether said ordinances are adopted now or in the
future.  (Ord. 11-2408, 4-18-2011)



3-15-3:   RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONFORMITY:



The owner and operator of the station, the owner of the real estate upon on
which the business is located and in case of a franchise, or similar
arrangement, the company granting the franchise, shall all be subject to the
provisions of this code including requirements for the abatement of any
nuisances.  (Ord. 11-2408, 4-18-2011)



3-15-4:   SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE:



All gasoline services stations shall comply with the following:



(A)   All structures shall be kept in good repair and all areas shall be
kept entirely free of litter. No gasoline, oil, grease or flammable liquid
shall be allowed to accumulate on the floor or drive areas which would flow
into or be placed in the sewer system of the city of Flora, Illinois. Saw
dust or other combustable materials shall not be used to absorb oil, grease
or gasoline. Chemicals used to abate any spill or accumulation of gasoline,
oil, grease or flammable liquids shall not be allowed to drain into the city
of Flora's sewer system unless the same chemical is compliant with the rules
and regulations as far as disposal into the city of Flora's sewers.



(B)   As a precaution to safeguard persons from potential hazards, an
employee of the gas station must be on the premises when the dispensing of
fuel takes place or if no employee is present, said fuel dispensing units
must have an automatic shut off to prevent fuel spills or fire hazards.



(C)   When a station is temporarily out of service, the following
precautions shall be immediately taken:



1.   The fill line, gage opening pump selection must be capped and secured
against tampering;



2.   All electric equipment involving dispenser and pump shall be
disconnected from the main distribution;



3.   The main vent line shall remain open.



(D)   The gasoline service station shall adhere to all the rules and
regulations of the city of Flora, Illinois including building codes, fire
codes, electrical codes or otherwise.



(E)   Representatives of the city fire department, building code
enforcement, zoning, electrical department and health department if
applicable, shall be permitted on the premises to conduct inspections at any
reasonable hour.  (Ord. 11-2408, 4-18-2011)



3-15-5:   ABANDONMENT:



(A)   Any gasoline service station determined by the city building
official to be abandoned shall be deemed a public nuisance which adversely
affects surrounding real estate property values, the public safety and
welfare. A gasoline service station shall be considered abandoned if it is
not operated for at least three hundred (300) hours in any sixty (60) day
time period. Whenever the city building official determines that any service
station is abandoned, said building official shall immediately notify, either
a person or by certified mail or by regular mail, the owner or operator of
the premises and issue an order of abandonment that must be complied with
within ninety (90) days. A nuisance caused by the abandonment may be abated
only as follows:



1.   Placing a station back into operation for a minimum of six (6) hours
per day, six (6) days per week.



2.   Razing all structures in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
Also, all buried fuel tanks must be removed in compliance with the ordinances
of the city, the laws of the State of Illinois and the U.S. government
including any and all regulatory agencies. Said razing shall be completed
within six (6) months including the removal of any fuel storage tanks.



3.   Making an appropriate application for change in use of the premises
to a permitted or special use if applicable to the zoning ordinances to the
city. If the proposed use is approved, the owners shall then have a definite
time period as specified by the corporate authorities, to commence operation
of the proposed use. If the new use does not commence within such time
period, the nuisance shall immediately be abated by the operator. In any
event, said gasoline service station may be required to remove all buried
storage tanks for fuel by the city building official. (Ord. 11-2408,
4-18-2011)



3-15-6:   APPEALS:



Any individual or entity subject to Title 3, Chapter 14 may appeal any
decision made by the city building official or zoning board, if applicable,
to the city council. All appeals shall be submitted in writing to the city
clerk and thereafter, the city council will hear said appeal within thirty
(30) days after submittal of the written request for appeal by the affected
party. The city council shall make a decision on the appeal within fifteen
(15) days thereafter.  (Ord. 11-2408, 4-18-2011)



3-15-7:   PENALTIES:




An individual or entity found guilty of this ordinance violation shall be
punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day the violation is not
abated. (Ord. 11-2408, 4-18-2011)




TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS



CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE



4-1-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:




There is hereby adopted by the city of Flora, Illinois, for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, maintenance, energy conservation, equipment, use and occupancy,
as well as location of buildings and structures including permits and
penalties and all applications thereto, the international building code of
2015, except Section P2904 Dwelling Unit Fire Sprinkler Systems, the
international fire code of 2015, the international residential code for one
and two family dwellings of 2015, the international energy conservation code
of 2015, the international property maintenance code of 2015, the
international mechanical code of 2015, the national fire protection code of
2012, the international swimming pool and spa code of 2015 and the Illinois
state accessibility code as adopted by the state of Illinois, and any
amendments and revisions to any of the codes set forth hereinabove. (Ord.
04-1853, 6-21-2004; Ord. 08-2203, 11-17-2008; Ord. 11-2397, 2-22-2011; Ord.
17-2804, 2-6-2017)




4-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL; OFFICE ESTABLISHED:



(A)   The office of building official is hereby created and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the building official.



(B)   (Rep. by Ord. 12-2498, 6-18-2012)



(C)   During temporary absence or disability of the building official the
appointing authority, with the consent of the city council, shall designate
an acting building official 1 . (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995)



4-1-3: DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL:



(A)   Duties: It shall be the duty of the building official to enforce all
laws relating to construction, alteration, removal and demolition of
buildings and structures and nuisances. Furthermore, the building official is
hereby authorized to issue citations for violations of the aforedescribed
ordinances and laws for the purposes of prosecution.



(B)   Compensation Of The Building Official: To be established by the city
council on an annual basis.



(C)   Deposit Of Fees: All building inspection fees, permit fees or other
fees specified, as generated by the building official in his duties and by
the permit fees set forth herein, shall be deposited in the general corporate
fund of the city. (Ord. 97-1362, 5-19-1997)



4-1-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY:



The building official, in the discharge of his official duties, and upon
proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building, structure
or premises at any reasonable hour. (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995)



4-1-5: FIRE LIMITS:



The fire limits of the city are hereby established to include the south
one-half (1/2) of blocks fourteen (14), fifteen (15) and sixteen (16) and the
entirety of blocks nineteen (19), twenty (20) and twenty one (21) in the
original town (now city) of Flora. These fire limits are set for the purpose
of guarding against the calamities of fire and sets forth the limits within
which wooden buildings shall not be erected, placed or repaired without
permission and whenever buildings within the fire limits have deteriorated or
have been damaged by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its
value or more, the building official may direct that such buildings shall be
torn down or removed 2 . (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995)



4-1-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:



No construction, alteration, removal, or demolition of buildings and
structures shall be permitted in the city without having a permit therefor
issued by order of the building official; provided however, that this section
shall not apply to repairs and maintenance of public service agencies, power
companies, temporary testing systems and railway utilities. (Ord. 95-1262,
11-6-1995)



4-1-7: PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:



   (A)   Private Residence And Accessory Buildings:



 




PERMIT FEES AND INSPECTION FEES FOR PRIVATE RESIDENCE AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:



New construction of residence
 

$250.00




New construction for an attached garage to a residence

 

150.00




New construction for a detached garage to a residence

 

150.00




Construction for residential addition

 

150.00




Small storage building

 

50.00




Portable storage building

 

25.00




Carport

 

10.00




Roof

 

20.00




Decks & patios

 

20.00




Fences

 

20.00




Mobile home placement

 

50.00




POOLS:



Above ground
 

$10.00




In ground

 

20.00




RESIDENTIAL ALTERATION:



Under $5,000.00
 

$25.00




$5,000.00 - $10,000.00

 

50.00




Over $10,000.00

 

75.00





 


INTERIOR REMODELING OF RESIDENCE WHICH REQUIRES INSPECTION:



Basic fee
 

$25.00




Each inspection

 

10.00




Permit for sales tax only

 

10.00




DEMOLITION:



Demolition permit
 

   $250.00




 



   (B)   Commercial And Industrial Construction:



      (1)   Commercial Construction:



 




GENERAL:



New construction
 

$300.00




Additions to existing structure   

 

200.00




ALTERATIONS:



Under $10,000.00
 

$100.00




Over $10,000.00

 

$150.00




INTERIOR REMODELS:



Basic fee
 

$50.00




Each inspection

 

20.00




SIGNS:



50 square feet and under
 

$45.00




Over 50 square feet

 

$45.00 plus $0.15 per square foot over 50 square feet




Permit for sales tax only

 

20.00




Fence

 

20.00




Roof

 

20.00




Demolition permit for commercial

 

   300.00





 



      (2)   Industrial Construction:  $1.00 per $1,000.00 for the
first $50,000.00 of costs; $2.00 per $1,000.00 for the remainder of costs of
construction; maximum fee of $500.00.



      (3)   No inspection fee shall be charged for new construction
where the applicant for the building permit shows upon its application that
the new construction is to be in accordance with plans and specifications
prepared by an architect or structural engineer licensed to do architectural
work in the state, and that said new construction is to be inspected by a
building or construction inspector employed by a department of the United
States Government a minimum of at least four (4) times during the course of
the construction work. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate
of the architect or structural engineer who prepared the said plans and
specifications certifying that he has examined the Building Code of the city,
and that the proposed construction set forth in said plans and specifications
equals or exceeds the requirements of said Code and that any changes
thereafter made in said plans and specifications shall equal or exceed the
requirements of said Building Code. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent the city from making inspections of new construction
regardless of whether an inspection fee is provided for in this chapter or
not.  (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995; amd. Ord. 11-2407, 4-18-2011; amd. Ord.
12-2482, 4-16-2012)



4-1-8: APPLICATION:



(A)   Applications for permits required by this section shall be made in
writing to the building official who shall issue the same upon approval and
upon receipt of payment. The city clerk shall collect all fees as required by
this section.



(B)   All applications shall require the following documents prior to
consideration:



1. Site Plan: Site plan, with all utility locations;



2. Certificate Of Compliance: Certificate of compliance from the zoning
administrator of the city;



3. Building Drawings:



(a) Residential:



(1) Elevations - two (2);



(2) Floor plan;



(3) Electrical showing panel locations and service entrance location;



(4) Plumbing drainage system;



(b) Commercial - Industrial:



(1) Site plan with all utility construction existing and proposed. To include
storm water, sewer, electrical and water lines;



(2) Cover sheet must include the following statements: design criteria from
the building code, as amended, electrical code, as amended, Illinois state
plumbing code, as amended, construction type and use group;



(3) All construction documents must contain the stamp of an architect
currently licensed in the state to assure compliance with the building codes
of the city and in accordance with the laws of the state;



(4) Complete floor plan;



(5) Complete elevations - four (4);



(6) Electrical drawings;



(7) Mechanical;



(8) Structural;



(9) Plumbing;



(10) Heating, ventilating and air conditioning;



(11) Sprinkler system (if applicable);



and any other documentation as required and needed by the building official
of the city to ensure compliance with the building code of the city. (Ord.
95-1262, 11-6-1995)



4-1-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:



The building official may revoke permits for cause or may refuse to issue
permits for cause and upon good cause, may issue a stop work order to any
permittee who fails to follow the ordinances set forth herein or the orders
of the building official, and the corporate authorities of the city may apply
to the circuit court of Clay County, for an injunction requiring compliance
with this code and an injunction to stop work until such time as the
requirements of compliance have come into effect in addition to the penalties
set forth hereinbelow. (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995)



4-1-10: VIOLATION:



No person shall do any work or perform any of the operations prescribed in
any section of this chapter without procuring and having in force the permit
required. Any person who shall fail or refuse to allow inspection or who
violates or fails to comply with all provisions set forth in this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor upon conviction thereof and shall be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995)



4-1-11: UNSAFE AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:



All owners and occupants regulated by this chapter shall be subject to and
comply with all applicable requirements of the city including any and all
building codes and any rules and regulations thereunder.



   (A)   The Powers And Duties Of The Building Official: The building
official, or in his absence, a duly appointed city official, may inspect any
buildings or structures within the city for the purposes of determining
whether the same are dangerous and unsafe or uncompleted or abandoned. If any
building or structure or part thereof is found to be in such disrepair as to
be declared "unsafe" with the meaning and intent of this chapter including,
but not limited to, the building code as adopted by the city or in the event
there is found to be buildings uncompleted or abandoned, the city building
official making such inspection may order the building or structure or any
portion thereof to be repaired or demolished pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this chapter.



   (B)   Unsafe And Dangerous Buildings Defined:



      1.   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other
means of exit is not of sufficient width or size, or is blocked by materials,
or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate means of exit in case
of fire or panic; or



      2.   Whenever the stress in any materials, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half (1 ½) times
the working stress or stresses in the building code for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location; or



      3.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or mine subsidence or by any other cause, to such an
extent that the structural strength or stability thereof is materially less
than it was before the catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements
of the building code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location; or



      4.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is
likely to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and
thereby injure persons or damage property; or



      5.  Whenever any portion thereof has settled to such an extent
that walls or other structural portions materially less resistant to winds or
earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new construction; or



      6.   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty
construction; the removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting the building; the
deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or any other cause, is
likely to partially or completely collapse; or



      7.   Whenever the building or structure has become so
dilapidated or deteriorated, or has become open and unsecured, so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children, or to create a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or to enable persons to resort
thereto for the purpose of committing unlawful acts or when said building or
structure could harbor vermin, insects or other unsafe or unhealthy animals
or insects; or



      8.   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed,
exists or is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or
prohibition applicable to the building or structure provided by the building
regulations of this city, as specified in the building code, or of any law or
ordinance of the city or the state relating to the condition, location, or
structure of buildings; or



      9.   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be
used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation
(broken windows, doors), decay, damage, being open and unsecured, faulty
construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation facilities,
or otherwise, is determined by the public health officer or building official
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease; or



      10.   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains
on site:



         (a)   When a demolition permit has been cancelled due to
the failure of the owner to begin demolition within three (3) days of the
date on which the demolition permit was issued; and/or



         (b)   When a demolition permit has expired due to the
failure of the person or entity to whom the permit was issued to complete
demolition within seven (7) days of the date on which the permit was issued,
or after the expiration of any extension of the seven (7) day period; or



      11.   Whenever any building or structure is in a condition as
to constitute a fire hazard as determined by the fire marshal; or



      12.   Whenever any unoccupied building or structure is in such
condition as to constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in
equity jurisprudence; or whenever any unoccupied building or structure is
deemed to be a nuisance by this code, and the structure or building has been
secured by the owner or his agents in accordance with this code for one year
or more, thereby causing a blighting influence on a neighborhood.



   (C)   Maintenance Or Occupancy Of A Dangerous Building Prohibited:



      1.   No person shall maintain or permit the existence within
the city of any dangerous building, as defined in subsection (B) of this
section.



      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person
in custody of any dangerous building to permit the building to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.



   (D)   Demolition Of Unsafe And Dangerous Buildings:



      1.   When the building official determines that a building, or
any part thereof, is: a) an imminent danger to the public health, safety or
welfare; b) open and vacant and an immediate and continuing hazard to the
community; or c) unsafe and dangerous, the building official may take
appropriate actions described in this section.



      2.   Whenever a dangerous building, or any part thereof, is in
such condition that it is an imminent danger and when a milder or slower
method of abating the danger would be inadequate to preserve the public
health, safety or welfare, the building official may declare that there is an
emergency and take immediate action, including, but not limited to,
demolition, to abate the danger or prevent impending injury. Notice of the
emergency and the action taken, and/or required to be taken, shall be given
to the owner as possible thereafter.



      3.   When the building official determines that a residential
or commercial building, including any accessory building or structure, three
(3) stories or less in height, as defined by the building code and the
director of community services or the official designated to be in charge of
enforcing this chapter, is open and vacant and an immediate and continuing
hazard to the community in which the building is located, the building
official shall be authorized to post a notice not less than two feet by two
feet (2' x 2') in size on the front of the building. The notice shall be
dated as of the date of the posting and shall state that unless the building
is demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or any garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are removed so that
an immediate and continuing hazard to the community no longer exists, then
the building may be demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or any garbage,
debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials
may be removed, by the city.



      Not later than thirty (30) days following the posting of the
notice, the city shall do both of the following:



         (a)   Cause to be sent, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, a notice to all owners of record of the property, the
beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the property,
and all lien holders of record in the property, stating the intent of the
municipality to demolish, repair, or enclose the building or remove any
garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials if that action is not taken by the owner or owners.



         (b)   Cause to be published, in a newspaper published or
circulated in the city where the building is located, a notice setting forth:
1) the permanent tax index number and address of the building, 2) a statement
that the property is open and vacant and constitutes an immediate and
continuing hazard to the community, and 3) a statement that the municipality
intends to demolish, repair, or enclose the building or remove any garbage,
debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials if
the owner or owners fail to do so. This notice shall be published for three
(3) consecutive days. Any person of record, having legal interest in the
property, who objects to the proposed actions of the city, may file an
objection in an appropriate form in a court of competent jurisdiction.



         (c)   If the building is not demolished, repaired, or
repaired and enclosed, and the garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious,
or unhealthy substances or materials are not removed in accordance with city
code requirements, within thirty (30) days of mailing the notice to the
owners of record, or within thirty (30) days of the last day of publication
of the notice, whichever is later, the city shall have the power to demolish,
repair, or enclose the building or to remove any garbage, debris, or other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials.



         (d)   The city may proceed to demolish, repair, or
enclose a building or remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous,
noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials under this subsection within a
one hundred twenty (120) day period following the date of the mailing of the
notice if the appropriate official determines that the demolition, repair,
enclosure, or removal of any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy, substances or materials is necessary to remedy the immediate and
continuing hazard. If however, before the department proceeds with any of the
actions authorized by this subsection, any person having a legal interest in
the property, has sought a hearing under this subsection before a court and
has served a copy of the complaint on the mayor of the city, then the city
shall not proceed with the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal of
garbage, debris, or other substances until the court determines that action
is necessary to remedy the hazard and issues an order authorizing the city to
do so.



      4.   When the building official determines that a building is
unsafe and dangerous, the building official shall be authorized to do the
following:



         (a)   Post a notice not less than two feet by two feet
(2' x 2') in size on the front of the building. The notice shall be dated as
of the date of the posting and shall state that unless the building is
demolished, repaired or enclosed or any garbage, debris, and other hazardous,
noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are removed so that any unsafe
and dangerous condition no longer exists, then the building may be
demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or any garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials may be removed, by
the city.



         (b)   A "notice to repair or demolish" the dangerous
building in question shall be sent by the building official to any party of
record appearing to have an interest in the dangerous building. The "notice
to repair or demolish" shall:



            (1)   Describe the specific building or buildings
that were determined to be dangerous.



            (2)   Specify any deficiencies in the building or
buildings that are causing the building or buildings to be dangerous.



            (3)   Allow fifteen (15) days for the repair or
demolition of the building or buildings.



         (c)   The "notice to repair or demolish" shall be
executed by the building official and shall be sent by regular first class
mail, postage prepaid, to any party of record appearing to have any interest
in the building including, but not limited to, owners and mortgage holders.
The "notice to repair or demolish" shall be sent to the last known address of
a party with an interest in the building. A diligent search shall be made to
find the last known address of a party when the last known address is not
readily ascertainable. Sufficient service shall constitute depositing the
notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid.



         (d)   The city may file a complaint in the circuit court
requesting the demolition of a dangerous building by the owner in cases where
the city is of the opinion that demolition is appropriate. The city may file
such a complaint at any time after mailing the notice to repair or demolish
described in this section hereinabove but may not apply for an order to
demolish the property until the fifteen (15) day notice to repair or demolish
period has expired.



         (e)   In cases where the department is of the opinion
that the repair of a dangerous building is appropriate, an injunction may be
sought to compel the repair of the building by the owner. The repair of the
building may be accomplished by bringing the building into compliance with
the appropriate codes and ordinances of the city.



      5.   In addition to the remedies described in subsections
(D)4(b) through (D)4(d) of this section, the city may utilize any other
statutory or common law remedies available to abate dangerous buildings as
well as any other city of Flora ordinance which may be appropriate. In
addition thereto, the building official or his designate, after considering
the provisions and standards set forth or adopted in the city ordinances, the
state of Illinois and federal laws and having determined that an eminent
threat of danger exists to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of
the city of Flora or to property, shall have the authority to issue an
emergency demolition order for any building or structure, including
residential, commercial or industrial or otherwise or securing open and
unsecured buildings which present such a danger. The matters to be considered
by the building official in performance of these duties shall include but are
not limited to the spread of fire, collapse of building or associated
fixtures or structures including fences or otherwise which would further
endanger life and/or public safety as well as property.



   (E)   Lien For Expenses Incurred:  Any expenses incurred by the
city in enforcing this section shall become a lien upon the property where
the dangerous building was located. This lien is superior to all prior
existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes, provided the notice of the
lien is filed in the office of the recorder of deeds in Clay County within
one hundred eighty (180) days after repair or demolition expenses are
incurred. The lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out a
description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof, the
amount of money representing the costs and expenses incurred, and the date or
dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the municipality or by the
lien holder of record. Further, if the city took action pursuant to
subsection (D) of this section, the sworn statement shall also include: 1) a
statement by the building official that the building was open and vacant and
constituted an immediate and continuing hazard to the community; 2) a
statement by the official that the required sign was posted on the building,
that notice was sent by first class mail to the owners of record, and the
notice was published in accordance with this subsection; and 3) a statement
as to when and where the notice was published. The lien authorized by this
subsection may thereafter be released or enforced by the city as provided
under law.



      Upon payment after the notice of lien has been filed, the lien
shall be released by the municipality or person in whose name the lien has
been filed; and the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing a
notice of lien. The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in
case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. A suit to foreclose this lien may be
commenced by the city in accordance with state law.



   (F)   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be subject to a penalty of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) per day nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. For a second or further conviction of any
person of any violation of any provision of this section within one calendar
year of any condition under this section, the minimum fine shall be two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day. In addition to this penalty the city
may utilize any other statutory or common law remedies deemed appropriate by
a court of law or may process the violation by city adjudication through city
court whereupon the fines and penalties outlined in the chapter for city
adjudication shall be followed.



   (G)   Severability: The invalidity of any section or portion of this
title and chapter shall not affect the validity of any other section or part
thereof. (Ord. 99-1516, 7-19-1999; Ord. 15-2667, 1-5-2015)



4-1-12: MOBILE HOME PLACEMENT:




No mobile home shall be occupied until the requirements of this section, more
fully set forth hereinbelow, are fully met:




(A)   Foundation: Foundation system required.



(B)   Adequate Foundation System: The following shall be considered as
adequate foundation system: 1) complete under unit slab not less than four
inches (4") thick; 2) two foot by two foot by two foot (2' x 2' x 2') cube
placed within six feet (6') of the end of each unit and not more than ten
feet (10') on center; 3) sixteen inch (16") diameter cylinders drilled not
less than thirty inches (30") deep and placed within six feet (6') of each
end of the unit and not more than ten feet (10') on center or as recommended
by the manufacturer whichever may be more stringent.



(C)   Tie Downs: All units shall be tied in accordance with Illinois
mobile home tie down act of 1980, as amended.



(D)   Underpinning: All mobile homes shall be underpinned (skirted) with a
nonflammable material approved by the building official.



(E)   Off Street Parking: All mobile home units will provide off street
parking for two (2) vehicles and include a walk from the parking area to the
mobile home.



(F)   Conformance With Code: All decks, porches, stairs, etc., provided
for mobile home units shall conform to the requirements as set forth in the
International Building Code as adopted by the City of Flora, Illinois and as
amended.



(G)   Minimum Requirements For Services: All services for mobile homes
shall meet or exceed the requirements of policy and procedure guidelines of
the city of Flora, Illinois #8.



(H)   Water And Sewer Lines: All water and sewer lines shall conform to
the requirements of the Illinois state plumbing code or the policy and
procedure guidelines of the city.  (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995; amd. Ord.
09-2260, 7-6-2009)



4-1-13: PARKING LOTS; STORM WATER DETENTION:




No building permit shall be issued for any structure other than a
single-family structure or for any parking lot unless there shall have been
attached to the application therefor a storm water detention plan describing
the method for handling storm water in a manner so that the storm water
runoff shall not be increased as a result of such structure without detention
and other storm water handling facilities, and until such storm water
detention plan shall have been approved by the city engineer. Said storm
water detention shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements of
the Illinois department of transportation or based upon the form identified
as "Calculations For Storm Water Runoff Control" as filed with the city
clerk's office and the city building official at city hall building located
at 131 E. 2nd Street, Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 95-1262, 11-6-1995; amd. Ord.
09-2261, 7-6-2009)




4-1-14: EROSION CONTROL:



(A)   Purpose: Because of the possibility that excessive quantities of
soil will erode from areas undergoing subdivision development and the
construction of related improvements, this code requires the use of specific
erosion control measures. Sediment from soil erosion can reduce the channel
capacity of waterways, thereby limiting their use for many beneficial
purposes and resulting in increased chances of flooding, a risk to public
health and safety. Sediment can also clog sewers and ditches, pollute and
silt rivers, streams, lakes and reservoirs, and necessitate costly repairs to
gullies, washed out fills, and embankments.



In order to help safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the
environment, and promote the public welfare, the provisions of this section
guide, regulate and control the design, construction, use and maintenance of
any development which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in
the movement of earth on land situated within the city of Flora.



Any person, partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the
provisions of the erosion control provisions of this code shall be required
to restore the affected site to the condition existing prior to commission of
the violation, or to reimburse the city of Flora for the expense of such
restoration.



(B)   General Provisions:



1. Whenever feasible, natural contours should be followed as closely as
possible in areas of steep slopes where high cuts and fills might otherwise
be required so that the design of every subdivision is consistent with the
natural limitations presented by topography and soil, and so to create the
least potential for soil erosion.



2. Wherever possible, neutral vegetation should be retained and protected and
areas immediately adjacent to neutral watercourses should be left undisturbed.



3. The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.



4. During development, the subdivider/developer shall install temporary
erosion control measures to prevent siltation of adjacent streams, roads and
property.



5. The subdivider/developer shall install and maintain appropriate permanent
devices, such as sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins, silt
traps, filters, riprap, or energy dissipaters, in order to prevent long term
erosion and siltation and to remove sediment from runoff waters.



6. The subdivider/developer shall select erosion and sedimentation control
measures based upon an assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and
other events likely to contribute to erosion, and upon an evaluation of the
risk, cost and benefits involved.



7. In the design of the erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.



8. Provision shall be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development.
Drainageways should be designed so that their final gradients and the
resultant velocities of discharges will not create additional erosion.



9. Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed as soon as
practical during development, and in no case exceed more than ninety (90)
days.



(C)   Penalties:



1. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply
with, or who resists enforcement of any provisions of the erosion control
sections, shall be guilty of a civil offense punishable by a fine only of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus costs, for each offense.



2. Each day that a violation continues after notification is given thereof,
shall be considered a separate offense.



3. Notification shall be by regular mail from the city to the last known
mailing address of the violator.



4. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking any
other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with this
section. (Ord. 02-1758, 11-4-2002)



 


Notes

1 
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10 et seq.

2 
65 ILCS 5/11-8-3.



CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE



4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:



For the purpose of this chapter the following terms or words shall have the
meanings indicated in this section. The definitions as contained in this
section shall take precedence over any other accepted meaning including those
contained in any reference material referred to in this chapter.



PLUMBING: The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and public or private water
supply systems, within or adjacent to any building, structure or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension or alteration of storm water, liquid waste or sewerage, and water
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal or other acceptable terminal.



PLUMBING FIXTURES: Installed receptacles, devices or appliances which are
supplied with water or which receive or discharge liquids or liquid borne
waste, with or without discharge into the drainage system with which they may
be directly or indirectly connected.



PLUMBING SYSTEM: Includes the water supply and distribution pipes; plumbing
fixtures and traps; soil, waste and vent pipes; building drains including
their respective connections, devices and appurtenances within the property
lines of the premises, and water treating or water using equipment. (Ord.
67-41, 8-21-1967)



4-2-2: ADOPTION OF CODE:



The Illinois state plumbing code is hereby adopted by reference and is a part
of this chapter. Any part of the state code which may be in conflict with any
part of this chapter is hereby amended and superseded 52 . (Ord. 67-41,
8-21-1967)



4-2-3: CONFORMITY WITH STATE LAW:



No person shall engage in the business of plumbing in the city, either as a
plumbing contractor, employing plumber or journeyman plumber who shall not
comply with the license requirements of the plumbing license law of the state
of Illinois 53 . (Ord. 67-41, 8-21-1967)



4-2-4: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:



The administrative authority hereby designated to administer and enforce this
chapter shall be the city building official. (Ord. 02-1705, 2-19-2002)



 


Notes

52 
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1; 30 ILCS 220/1 et seq.

53 
225 ILCS 320/1 et seq.



CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE



4-3-1: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:




The term "electrical inspector" means the city building official of the city
of Flora, Illinois, or any of his duly authorized agents. (Ord. 02-1707,
2-19-2002)




4-3-2: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE:




There is hereby adopted by reference by the city of Flora, Illinois, a
certain electrical code known as the "national electrical code" adopted by
the National Fire Protection Association and approved by the national board
of fire underwriters, 2017 edition, as amended and revised and any amendments
thereto. The same is hereby adopted and incorporated herein as though set out
in full and from the date of which this chapter has been approved by the city
council of the city of Flora, Illinois, shall be controlling in the
installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment within the city and
on any city property that may be located outside the corporate limits. Any
part of said code which may be in conflict with this chapter is hereby
superseded. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any electrical device
that does not comply with said code as to safety and adequacy. (Ord. 02-1707,
2-19-2002; Ord. 08-2204, 11-17-2008; amd. Ord. 09-2294, 10-5-2009; amd. Ord.
17-2803, 2-6-2017)




4-3-3: AMENDMENTS:




The national electrical code adopted in section 4-3-2 of this chapter is
hereby amended by the following changes:




(A)   Illuminated signs of all types shall have a minimum clearance from
the ground or walkway of ten feet (10') and shall not extend more than ten
feet (10') out from the property line, nor closer than two feet (2') to the
curb line of the street. All signs in alleys and over driveways shall have a
minimum clearance of fifteen feet (15'). The sign support shall be of steel
of sufficient strength to adequately support it under all wind and weather
conditions. Guys shall be of chain or galvanized steel cable.



(B)   No service shall be smaller than one hundred (100) amps. six (6)
circuit.



(C)   No smaller wire than no. 12 shall be used in any general purpose
receptacle or lighting circuits, including switch legs, except that a switch
leg which switches a single light fixture only may be wired with no. 14 wire.



(D)   All electrical work and services within or upon any building within
the city limits (excluding single-family residences, two-family residences,
and multiple family dwellings of six residential units or less, and accessory
buildings for all such residential units) shall be installed in approved
metal conduits, metal moldings, or flexible armored cable per requirements of
the National Electrical Code as adopted by the City of Flora. Services for
all buildings (excluding single-family residences, two family residences, and
multiple family dwellings of six residential units or less, and accessory
buildings for all such units) shall enter the building in rigid conduit. 
All underground service cable shall be approved type and suitably protected
from mechanical injury by metal conduit or otherwise shall meet City of Flora
requirements.



Article 334.10 and Article 34.12: Non Metallic Sheathed Cables: Types NM,
NMC, and NMS cable shall be permitted only in residential dwellings, except
as prohibited in 334.12.  Exception: garages and storage buildings
incidental to residential use.



(E)   Article 398 of the national electrical code providing for open
wiring on insulators and the wiring methods as described therein shall not be
allowed for use in the city.




(Ord. 03-1821, 12-1-2003; amd. Ord. 09-2295, 10-5-2009; amd. Ord. 09-2296,
10-5-2009)




CHAPTER 4
NATURAL GAS REGULATIONS



4-4-1: APPLICATION FOR NATURAL GAS SERVICE:



(A)   Any prospective customer requesting new gas service or an existing
customer requesting additional or changed gas service shall complete and file
with the city clerk an application for natural gas service. Said application
will be in a form approved by the city clerk, copies of which may be obtained
from the office of the city clerk, city hall or the office of the industrial
advisor.



(B)   If the prospective customer is a tenant of the premises to be
served, the property owner, or his legal representative or designated agent,
must countersign the application before the application will be granted. The
services of the gas system shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
occupant and the owner of the premises receiving such services and shall be
deemed an obligation of both the occupant and the owner of any such premises.



(C)   If required, a meter deposit shall be paid as provided in subsection
8-3-7(B) of this code. New service connection charges shall be paid as
provided in subsection 8-3-7(U) of this code. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-2: RESERVED:



(Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-3: EXTENSION POLICY, MAINS:



The city shall not be required to extend gas service within the city limits,
a distance of more than one hundred feet (100') per customer and only then
when sufficient funds are available in excess of those required for the
proper operation of the system. Extension of mains and gas service outside of
the city limits shall be subject to approval of the council and shall also be
subject to all of the rules and regulations and provisions as provided herein
or as may be amended. All mains, lines and equipment, shall immediately
become the property of the city.



Where gas service is desired when funds for extensions of mains are not
available and/or when the distance is in excess of one hundred feet (100')
per customer noted above, such extension can be made if the applicant will
deposit with the city the estimated cost of making the extension, less one
hundred feet (100') when funds are available, or the entire amount when funds
are not available. The amounts so deposited shall be refunded to such
customer or customers at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per Mcf paid
annually, until the total deposit has been refunded, or until eight (8)
annual payments have been made, whichever event occurs first. Such deposit
shall be interest free. In the event that the amount deposited is greater or
less than the actual cost of the extension, such excess or deficiency shall
be corrected prior to giving gas service.



The above applies to mains. See subsection 8-3-7(U) of this code for gas
service lines. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-4: COST OF RELOCATING A GAS LINE:



If a natural gas customer finds it necessary to relocate a gas line, said
customer shall make application for gas line relocation with the city clerk's
office. All cost of such relocation shall be paid by the customer for all
labor at the hourly rates for the workmen, the cost of materials used plus
thirty percent (30%) of the amounts for labor. In the event a person, firm or
corporation shall, after this section becomes effective, construct any house,
garage, shed, patio, building or other structure over any gas line, the city
may relocate such line and charge the cost thereof to such person, firm or
corporation so constructing on the same basis as provided in this section.
(Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-5: RULES GOVERNING GAS:



No person, firm or corporation shall install, replace, repair or alter any
system or piping for conveyance, distribution or use of illumination or fuel
gas, or construct, repair, replace, install, alter or maintain any gas
burning devices connected to any such system of gas piping in any building or
structure which is connected with the natural gas distribution system of said
city, otherwise than in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. No
person, firm or corporation shall construct any house, garage, shed, building
or other structure over any gas service line or main. (Ord. 92-1142,
12-21-1992)



4-4-6: GAS WORK TO CONFORM TO LAWS:



It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do, or cause to
be done, any of the acts herein prohibited, or fail, refuse or neglect to do
any of the acts herein required to be done or performed. (Ord. 92-1142,
12-21-1992)



4-4-7: RESERVED:



(Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-8: RESERVED:



(Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-9: GENERAL RULES:



(A)   No additional connections shall be made with any private line or
customer owned line. Private service lines or customer owned extensions of
service are prohibited.



(B)   The city shall have the right and option to demand changes, removal
or replacement of any pipe, fixture or apparatus which is considered to be
faulty, inadequate or hazardous, provided, however, that such action by the
city shall not create any liability or financial obligation or any other
obligations upon the city. The cost of the above work shall be fully borne by
the property owner. The city shall have the right to refuse or to discontinue
gas service without notice to a customer if the city finds any installed
apparatus or appliances which would be detrimental to the efficient operation
of the existing facilities under the latest revision of NFPA 54.



(C)   All persons, firms, corporations and customers are strictly
forbidden to attach any electrical ground wire to any fixture or piping which
is or may be connected to any gas service pipe, meter or main belonging to
the city. The city will hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable
for any damage to its property or injury to the employees of the city caused
by such ground wire. Any and all customers, persons, firms or corporations
shall remove any existing ground wires immediately and if such ground wires
are not removed after twenty four (24) hours' written notice, the city,
through its officials, may enter the property and remove such ground wires
and the customers shall pay all costs. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-10: EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS:



Excavations in streets shall comply with the terms and provisions of section
8-1-14 of this code. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-11: GAS WORK DONE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS OF CITY:



Any person who, having his property, premises, buildings or mobile home
outside the corporate limits of the city, desires to use or connect with any
gas main of the said city, shall conform to the provisions of this code
regulating the installation of gas piping and gas appliances in buildings and
all other provisions of this code in respect to the natural gas distribution
system. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-12: SPECIFICATIONS FOR MAIN AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS:



The city does hereby adopt the requirements of the federal and state pipeline
safety acts as its "specifications base". Gas service connections made to the
mains of the system of the city shall comply with requirements and
regulations set forth within the pipeline safety acts and related pipeline
safety standards. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-13: ALL SERVICE SHALL BE METERED:



(A)   No gas service shall be furnished to any person, firm, organization
or corporation, public or private, without an accounting as to said gas, and
all rates and charges shall be nondiscriminatory, provided that the council
reserves the right to impose special rates and charges where particular
circumstances render the regular rates inadequate or unjust. If the city
would elect to supply itself with gas for any purpose, regular rates therefor
shall be charged against the city and payment made from the funds thereof to
the gas fund. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



(B)   All gas service shall be metered with a meter of adequate size to
measure the amount of gas consumed. Meters shall be of standard design and
may be of the diaphragm, rotary, or turbine type properly used at the
discretion of the director of public works. The measurement pressure base
shall be seven inches (7") water column. The temperature base shall be sixty
degrees Fahrenheit (60°F). (Ord. 00-1587, 4-3-2000)



(C)   Where gas main is located to the rear of houses, meters will be
located at the rear side of the house or either side of the house, but not to
exceed five feet (5') past the rear corner. Where the gas main is located
adjacent to the front of the houses, meter location will be at the front of
the house or on either side of the house, but not to exceed five feet (5')
past the front corner. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-14: METERS, ETC., TO BE OPEN TO INSPECTION:



(A)   All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading and repairing. All meters
shall be set outside of the buildings where practical. If found to be
unavoidable, the installer must provide adequate vent extending to the
outside.



(B)   At all reasonable hours, meters, regulators, fittings, fixtures and
appurtenances connected to the system and located on private property shall
be open and accessible for inspection by the proper officers or employees of
the city. Any part found to be defective or not in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be immediately repaired or corrected.
Service may be discontinued without notice at any time when conditions of the
privately owned facilities create danger or hazard, or found not in
compliance with section 4-4-9 or 4-4-21 of this chapter. (Ord. 92-1142,
12-21-1992)



4-4-15: METER READING CONCLUSIVE:



(A)   All gas customers shall be liable for the gas consumption as shown
by the meter. Waste, leakage or other causes not the fault of the city shall
be included under said liability. The meter reading shall be conclusive
provided that when a meter is found to have a positive average error, i.e.,
is fast in excess of two percent (2%) in tests made at the request of the
customer, the city shall refund to the customer an amount equal to the excess
charged for the gas incorrectly metered, for a period equal to one-half (1/2)
of the time elapsed since the last previous test, but not to exceed six (6)
months. No part of a minimum or facility charge will be refunded.



(B)   When a meter is found to have a negative average error, i.e., is
slow in excess of two percent (2%) in tests made at the request of the
customer, the city may make a charge to the customer for the gas incorrectly
metered for a period equal to one-half (1/2) of the time elapsed since the
last previous test but not to exceed six (6) months.



(C)   If a meter is found not to register or partially register for any
period, the city shall estimate the charge for the gas used by averaging the
amounts registered over similar periods, preceding or subsequent thereto, or
over corresponding periods in previous years all of which shall recognize
weather conditions and degree day deficiencies. Such action shall be taken
only in cases of substantial importance where the city is not at fault for
allowing the incorrect meter to be in service.



(D)   Estimated meter readings shall not be used, excepting in the case of
meter failure or inclement weather or proven inaccuracy and then only in
accordance with this chapter. Monthly accounting for all metered gas compared
to gas purchases shall be done by the city clerk and reported in writing to
the gas department. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-16: TEST OF METERS:



(A)   Any consumer may request the city to make a test of the accuracy of
the meter then in use on their premises. Such tests will be made by the city
without charge; provided, that such meter has not been tested within two (2)
years preceding such a request. In case a consumer requests an accuracy test
of a meter which has been previously tested within two (2) years, the
consumer shall be required to deposit with the city the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) for a meter having a capacity of four hundred fifteen (415) cfh or
less. Larger meters shall be tested at actual total cost of the work. (Ord.
92-1142, 12-21-1992)



(B)   In the event such a meter is found by testing to register
incorrectly at twenty percent (20%) full capacity, by more than two percent
(2%) fast, as stated, then another meter shall be substituted and the test
deposit shall be refunded. Past gas bills shall be adjusted by refund or
credit of such percentage of the amount of the gas bills for a period of not
more than six (6) months previous to such test as prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 00-1587, 4-3-2000)



(C)   In the event that the meter is found to be within the limits and
registering correctly, the consumer shall forfeit the test deposit and such
funds shall be deposited in the gas operating funds of the city. (Ord.
92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-17: DEFINITION OF THERM:



The definition of a "therm" shall be one hundred (100) cubic feet of natural
gas for the purpose of volumetric billing, accounting, and payment of taxes.
(Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-18: SEPARATE METERS FOR EACH DISTINCT BUILDING:



No person, firm, or corporation shall connect any gas service line or
transmit gas supplied by the natural gas system of the city into more than
one distinct building from one meter. A garage or similar outbuilding shall
be considered a distinct building. Apartment buildings having separate
dwelling units may be serviced from a single meter. Duplex dwellings may be
serviced from individual meters. The city council shall have the right to
establish special services or service connections as may be necessary for
large users. (Ord. 00-1587, 4-3-2000)



4-4-19: METER, REGULATOR OR CITY OWNED EQUIPMENT DAMAGED:



(A)   Whenever a meter, regulator or other equipment of a service
connection which has been installed by the city is found to have been damaged
from any cause whatsoever, such damages shall become the liability of the
customer who shall pay the city the actual cost of the removal, repairing
and/or replacement of such damaged equipment.



(B)   In the event such damage has caused inaccurate metering, then such
gas bills shall be corrected in the manner previously provided for herein to
cover such period that the meter was out of order. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-20: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR AN INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY:



(A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of gas whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for any
operating reason or if an unsafe condition exists. In all cases where
possible, a reasonable notice of the circumstances will be given to the
customers, but in an emergency or discovery of any unsafe condition, the gas
may be shut off without notice. Such necessary repairs or work will be made
by the city as rapidly as may be practical. The city shall not be held
responsible or liable because of any shutoff or discontinuance of service for
any direct or resultant damages to any person, company or customer.



(B)   In the event of such discontinuance of gas service, the city will
make every attempt to safeguard the customer and service shall not be renewed
until the city authorities have purged the lines and put into service all
automatic controls and pilots. In no case shall the customer turn on his own
service. The purging of lines, relighting pilots and checking automatic
controls will be done by the city. Where the nature of the customers'
operations are such that an interruption of service might create a hazard or
large economic loss, such customer shall provide facilities for standby
service at his discretion.



(C)   Whenever mains, pipes, service connections or other facilities of
the gas system are taken up, shut off or interfered with by reasons of any
street improvements, the city will endeavor to maintain service so far as is
reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable for any
interruption, poor pressure or inconvenience of any kind either to the
customers adjacent or to other customers affected thereby. Direct damages to
property due to such operations shall be either repaired or replaced by the
city without cost to the customer.



(D)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons
who may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither
insure nor be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages
direct or indirect by any reason of any fire, or any other cause and all gas
service furnished shall also be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable
accidents, fire, strikes, riots, or any other cause. Any customer having a
facility, operation, process or activity which cannot under any or all
conditions tolerate temporary interruption of gas service shall provide an
alternate source of on site fuel or heat for utilization during such
interruption. The responsibility for this alternate rests fully with the
customer. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-21: REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO CUSTOMER'S PIPING, FACILITIES, APPLIANCES AND
VENTING:



(A)   The responsibility of the city for maintenance and safety of natural
gas piping terminates at the outlet of the meter except for residential
customers where the meter is located more than three feet (3') from the
outside residential wall in accordance with Illinois law. (Ord. 94-1188,
1-3-1994)



(B)   All house piping shall be of rigid construction. The pipes from the
outlet of the meter shall be black iron of not less than one inch (1") inside
diameter, three-quarter inch (3/4") diameter pipe is allowed for runs of
thirty feet (30') or less to the heating plant or first major appliance. The
pipe shall enter the house wall by means of suitable metal strap or clamp at
a point not more than eighteen inches (18") from the outlet wall, shall be
fastened to the wall at intervals sufficient to make the piping rigid
throughout. In instances where piping from meter enters the wall, the
interior end shall be securely fastened so that the pipe will not turn when
fittings at the meter are put on. The final tie in of the gas line to the
meter shall be made by the customer only after air testing by the customer or
his agent. Gas will not be turned on to any customer manifold that has not
been first air tested for leakage by the applicant or his agent and
subsequently checked by the city. Testing must be done as a completed system.
(Ord. 00-1587, 4-3-2000)



(C)   The city does herewith adopt as its rules and regulations the safety
practices set forth by the national fire protection association, in the
latest revision of the national fuel gas code, NFPA 54, as though those
provisions were fully repeated and set forth herein so far as they are not
inconsistent with this chapter. In the event of conflict, the more
restrictive language shall apply. NFPA 54 is the national fuel gas code. Any
person, firm or corporation installing fuel gas piping or appliances within
the gas service area of the city shall avail themselves of said code prior to
the undertaking of any such installation and shall follow it.



(D)   No surface may be constructed or placed over a gas service line or
main which may produce a seal to a building wall or foundation.



(E)   All buried natural gas piping facilities owned or served by the city
and distribution appurtenances shall conform to the latest revision of NFPA
54 and the minimum federal safety standards part 192 CFR 49 as though fully
set forth herein. The minimum standards shall apply equally to private buried
facilities and distribution appurtenances. No natural gas piping may be
placed or remain beneath any building or sealed surface except in a specified
vented casing. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



(F)   No meter, regulator or any part of a meter setting may be painted or
otherwise coated by a customer without written approval of the director of
public works on a case by case basis. Special coatings are required to
prevent shorting of insulators. (Ord. 00-1587, 4-3-2000)



(G)   The city shall not "approve" customer piping, which as used herein
means piping beyond the outlet of the meter. The city may refuse connection
or discontinue service upon discovering any conditions which may be in
violation of this chapter or which may create any type of safety hazard,
including venting. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



(H)   Heating plants and water heaters shall be connected to gas piping
with black iron pipe or AGA listed flexible connectors. The black iron pipe
must extend to within one foot (1') of the appliance and the pipe supported
securely. AGA approved appliance connectors may also be used on ranges,
clothes dryers or built in ovens. Sweat fittings shall not be used anywhere
in the gas piping. (Ord. 00-1587, 4-3-2000)



(I)   All gas conversion burners to be installed shall be AGA listed and
approved. All designed heating plants shall be AGA listed and approved and
the manufacturer's recommendations for the installation shall be followed.



No conversion burner shall be installed in any old or ineffective furnace or
a boiler which is in poor repair. Test for leakage shall be conducted by the
installed in an approved manner before placing a conversion burner in a warm
air heating plant. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



(J)   No alteration, repair, adjustment, customer relighting, any
appliance work or piping work shall be done by the city forces beyond the
outlet of the meter except to the extent that it may be required for the
purposes of safety only or in the event the city forces interrupt service.



(K)   Unvented gas appliances may be installed or operated within the city
in accordance with NFPA 54 and the manufacturer's installation and operation
instructions. The restrictions for location of such appliances should be
strictly adhered to. The installer must ensure there is adequate ventilation
from the room in accordance with NFPA 54 and the manufacturer's instructions.



Safety shutoff devices to protect either supply gas or any failure shall be
installed and subsequently tested for proper operation by the installer.
Written documentation of the test may be requested. These devices shall be
used when approved for or furnished with new heating equipment.



(L)   Decorative or supplementary appliances shall be properly vented when
required by the NFPA 54 and the manufacturer's installation instructions.
These include, but are not limited to, gas logs and gas log lighters. At any
time such units are installed in wood burning fireplaces, special action must
be taken for permanent modification of the flue damper. Positive assurance
must be provided that the damper cannot be fully closed. A permanent hole
must be cut or a positive stop attached even if the unit has a safety pilot.
The size of the opening shall be in accordance with the table in NFPA 54
titled "Free Opening Area of Chimney Damper for Venting Flue Gases From
Unlisted Decorative Appliances for Installation in Vented Fireplaces". All
other provisions for safety must be observed. (Ord. 00-1587, 4-3-2000)



(M)   The city shall be notified of any changes or alterations,
remodeling, or reconstruction, affecting gas piping in any building, house or
grounds. This shall be done using a new "Application for Gas Service" or by
amending an existing application. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-22: RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT:



All rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the natural
gas system of the city and the consumption of gas therefrom shall become a
part of the contract with every gas customer, and every gas customer shall be
subject thereto and bound thereby. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-23: TAMPERING WITH METER, REGULATOR OR ANY PARTS OF THE GAS SYSTEM
BELONGING TO THE CITY:



(A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or customer
to break the seal of any meter, or in any manner, to make any alterations,
changes or repairs on the same or to open any mains, laterals, service pipe,
stopcocks, valves or any part thereof or otherwise tamper or attempt to do
any work on either or any of them without authority of the city, or its
proper authorized agent. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this section, or who shall wilfully or maliciously injure or damage any
property connected with the gas system or the city shall be subject to the
penalty hereinafter prescribed.



(B)   No customer shall be permitted to use the stopcock of the service
connection for shutting off gas while making extensions, additions or repairs
to the pipe or equipment on the premises. Such shutoff or discontinuance or
interruption of service will be made by the city or its properly authorized
employees.



(C)   Tampering shall include any type of confinement, enclosure, covering
over, surface sealing or changing of the environment relative to any parts of
the gas system or equipment of the city. Such tampering shall become the
liability of the customer who shall pay the city the actual cost of removal,
repairing and/or replacing equipment or material. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-24: RESALE OF GAS PROHIBITED:



No gas shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the city
supply to any premises other than that for which application has been made
and the gas installed. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



4-4-25: EXCAVATION REGULATION FOR PROTECTION OF NATURAL GAS FACILITIES:



(A)   Plans for sanitary sewer work or water main work which include
trenching, must include the general location of all natural gas service lines
and mains which cross the construction or are located within ten feet (10')
of the outer limits of the proposed trenching.



(B)   A preconstruction conference must be held not less than two (2)
weeks prior to the beginning of trenching work and minutes of that conference
must be maintained in the permanent records of the gas utility. (Ord.
92-1142, 12-21-1992)



(C)   The preconstruction conference mentioned above should be attended by
the superintendent of the excavator and by the public works director or his
designated representative.



(D)   A written request for surface marking must be delivered by the
excavator to the public works director or his designated representative not
less than two (2) full working days prior to the initiation of excavation.
This is in addition to the required notification of the statewide one call
system.



(E)   Gas facilities to be exposed by excavations or near excavations
shall be specifically identified to the public works director or his
designated representative by the excavator twenty four (24) hours in advance
of the time that such facility or facilities will be exposed.



(F)   The excavator shall report any incident in which gas facilities are
accidentally exposed but not damaged to the public works director or his
designated representative not less than two (2) hours following such
accidental exposure of facilities. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992; amd. Ord.
00-1587, 4-3-2000)



(G)   A qualified employee of the city's gas utility shall be present at
the site of any excavation occurring within ten feet (10') of any gas service
line or other gas facility.



(H)   The cost incurred in providing the qualified city employee described
above shall be paid by the excavator at actual cost of the gas utility of the
city.



(I)   The excavator shall be fully responsible for trench settlement after
construction as well as shoring, bracing and full support of the entire
length during construction. (Ord. 92-1142, 12-21-1992)



CHAPTER 5
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS



4-5-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:



(A)   Any building or structure within the city which is in such condition
as to endanger the life or limb of any person or any property contiguous
thereto, is a nuisance.



(B)   Any sign projecting more than two feet (2') into a street, or
hanging in such a way as to interfere with the free use of any sidewalk, and
any house, shed or other building, or any fence standing wholly or in part on
any street, alley or public grounds of the city is a nuisance 54 . (1956
Code, Sec. 11.03)



4-5-2: ABATEMENT:



(A)   The owner of any nuisance described in this chapter shall raze,
rebuild or repair the nuisance in accordance with building restrictions so as
to eliminate the nuisance and all danger to public safety.



(B)   Upon the council by resolution declaring a nuisance, the council
shall issue an order of abatement of the nuisance, which shall be served upon
the owner of the building, if residing in the city; or published in one issue
of a newspaper of general circulation in the city and a copy of the
publication posted on the building if the owner does not reside in the city,
or is unknown.



(C)   If the owner fails to abate the nuisance within a reasonable time
but not later than the time specified in the order, the city shall abate the
nuisance by removing such nuisance or by razing the building, structure or
part thereof to ground level.



(D)   The razing may be done by employment of labor or by contract and the
salvage may be sold and the proceeds applied to the cost of razing and the
cost of the abatement proceeding. In case the proceeds are insufficient to
pay the costs of abatement, the owner shall be liable to the city for the
balance of the costs, to be recovered in a suit of law. In case the proceeds
are more than the costs, the balance shall be paid to the owner or deposited
in the city treasury for the use of the owner. (1956 Code, Sec. 11.04)



 


Notes

54 
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, 5/11-31-2.



CHAPTER 6
FLOOD PLAIN AREAS



4-6-1: PURPOSE:



This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city by
the Illinois municipal code 55 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
(Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



(A)   To prevent unwise development from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;



(B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;



(C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;



(D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities, and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;



(E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas; and



(F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available. (Ord.
94-1210, 6-20-1994)



4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:



For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:



BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
flood. The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
4-6-3 of this chapter.



BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to the mean sea level
of the crest of the base flood.



BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings.
The term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be
installed on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.



DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not limited to:



(A) Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or any addition
to a building exceeding seventy (70) square feet in floor area;



(B) Substantial improvement of an existing building;



(C) Installing of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days;



(D) Installing of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;



(E) Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;



(F) Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or other
alterations of the ground surface;



(G) Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks; and



(H) Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.



"Development" does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar practices
that do not involve a change in the ground surface elevation.



FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.



FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.



FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the flood plain outside of the regulatory
floodway.



FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency agency that
depicts the flood plain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.



FLOOD PLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Those lands within the
jurisdiction of the city that are subject to inundation by the base flood.
The flood plains of the city are generally identified as such on a flood
insurance rate map of the city prepared by the federal emergency management
agency and dated August 5, 1985. The flood plains of those parts of the
unincorporated Clay County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city or that may be annexed into the city are generally identified as
such on the flood insurance rate map prepared for the county by the federal
emergency management agency and dated May 29, 1981.



FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION OR FPE: The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the flood plain.



FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate, property and their contents.



FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency
management agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed
and constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.



FLOODWAY: That portion of the flood plain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the flood plains of Seminary Creek and Elm Creek
shall be as delineated on the flood plain map prepared by FEMA and dated
August 5, 1985. The floodways for each of the remaining flood plains of the
city shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources.



IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.



MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.



NFIP: National flood insurance program.



SFHA: See definition of Flood Plain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).



SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: a) before the improvement or repair is
started, or b) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored,
before the damage occurred. Substantial improvement is considered to occur
when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
either: a) any improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or b) any alteration of a
structure listed on the national register of historic places or the Illinois
register of historic places.



TRAVEL TRAILER (OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE): A vehicle which is:



(A) Built on a single chassis;



(B) Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;



(C) Designated to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and



(D) Designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, travel or seasonal use and not as a permanent dwelling. (Ord.
94-1210, 6-20-1994; amd. Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



4-6-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:



This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the federal
emergency management agency for approval.



(A)   The base flood elevation for the flood plains of the Seminary Creek
and Elm Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
flood insurance study of the city prepared by the federal emergency
management agency and dated August 5, 1985. (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



(B)   The base flood elevation for each flood plain delineated as an "AH
Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the flood
insurance rate map of the city.



(C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining flood plains
delineated as an "A Zone" on the flood insurance rate map of the city shall
be according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study should be done to determine
base flood elevations. (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



(D)   The base flood elevation for each flood plain of those parts of
unincorporated Clay County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on
the one hundred (100) year old flood profiles of the flood insurance study of
Clay County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated May
29, 1981. (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



4-6-4: DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:



The building official shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the flood
plains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically the building official shall: (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



(A)   Process development permits in accordance with section 4-6-5 of this
chapter;



(B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a flood plain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
4-6-6 of this chapter;



(C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section 4-6-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the
"as-built" elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof
certificate;



(D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of section 4-6-8 of this chapter;



(E)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
4-6-9 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;



(F)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in section 4-6-11 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance
with this chapter;



(G)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;



(H)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and flood plain construction techniques;



(I)   Cooperate with state and federal flood plain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;



(J)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, flood plain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter; and (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



(K)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



4-6-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:



No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development in the flood plain without first obtaining a
development permit from the building official. The building official shall
not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.



(A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:



1. Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions;



2. Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;



3. The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings;
and



4. The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed
buildings subject to the requirements of section 4-6-7 of this chapter.



(B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
building official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data
to have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the
site's first flood insurance rate map identification is not in the flood
plain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. The
building official shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification. (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



4-6-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:



Within the floodway identified on the flood boundary and floodway map, and
within all flood plains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:



(A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety. The following specific development activities
shall be considered as meeting this requirement:



1. Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit no. 3;



2. Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit no. 4;



3. Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 5;



4. Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 6;



5. Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 7;



6. Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 8;



7. Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit no. 9;



8. Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 10;



9. Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 11; and



10. Any development determined by IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 11; and



(B)   Other development activities not listed in subsection (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:



1. A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); and



2. Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA, when necessary, and approval
obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



4-6-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:



(A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section 4-6-6
of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the flood plain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This
building protection requirement applies to the following situations:



1. Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00);



2. Substantial improvements made to an existing building;



3. Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase the
floor area by more than twenty percent (20%);



4. Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured home on
an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage); and



5. Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days. (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



(B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods: (Ord. 00-1632,
12-18-2000)



1. The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance with
the following:



(a) The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the flood
protection elevation;



(b) The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot (1') before
compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;



(c) The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;



(d) The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate debris or
refuse materials; (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



(e) The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties; and (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



2. The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:



(a) The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles, walls or
other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;



(b) The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above
the flood protection elevation; (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



(c) If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer to provide adequate flow to equalize hydrostatic
pressure or provide a minimum of one permanent opening on each wall, no more
than one foot (1') above grade. The opening shall provide a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area
subject to flood below the base flood elevation; (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



(d) The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned in
relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure
to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating debris;



(e) All structural components below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;



(f) Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps
and other service facilities may be located below the flood protection
elevation provided they are waterproofed; (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



(g) The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished exterior
grade; and



(h) The area below the flood protection elevation shall be solely for parking
or building access and not occupied as habitable space or use for the storage
of materials. (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



(C)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days shall be:



1. Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and



2. Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being tied
down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code 870.



(D)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer certifies that:



1. Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant utility
facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base
flood;



2. The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of rise,
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and impact from
debris and ice; and



3. Floodproofing measures will be operable without human intervention and
without an outside source of electricity.



Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing
for the purpose of this subsection. (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



4-6-8: SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:



The city council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, and all official actions relating to land management use and
development. (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



(A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection
standards of sections 4-6-6 and 4-6-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such
development shall include the following data:



1. The base flood elevation and the boundary of the flood plain (where the
base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);



2. The boundary of the floodway when available; and



3. A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the proposed
plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 56 .



(B)   Public health standards must be met for all flood plain development.
In addition to the requirements of sections 4-6-6 and 4-6-7 of this chapter,
the following standards apply:



1. No development in the flood plain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation
unless such materials are stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building
constructed according to the requirements of section 4-6-7 of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



2. Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;



3. Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;



4. New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal systems
shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination
from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings located
below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight. (Ord. 00-1632,
12-18-2000)



(C)   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so
as not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord.
94-1210, 6-20-1994)



4-6-9: VARIANCES:



Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the building official for a
variance. The building official shall review the applicant's request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the city council. The city
council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.



(A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:



1. The development activity cannot be located outside the flood plain;



2. An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were granted;



3. The relief requested is the minimum necessary;



4. There will be no additional threat to public health or safety, or creation
of a nuisance;



5. There will be no additional public expenses for flood protection, rescue
or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;



6. The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a pattern
inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and



7. All other required local, state and federal permits have been obtained.



(B)   The building official shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of
section 4-6-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a
building will:



1. Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;



2. Increase the risks to life and property; and



3. Require that the applicant proceed with the knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.



(C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of section 4-6-7
of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a site or building included on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places may be granted
using criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsections (A)1
through (A)5 of this section. (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



4-6-10: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:



The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the flood plain will be
free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the
part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



4-6-11: PENALTY:



Failure to obtain a permit for development in the flood plain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the building official may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
The building official shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.



(A)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days notice to correct the
violation:



1. The city may make application to the circuit court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as the court
deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.



2. Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00); and



3. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.



(B)   The building official shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and thereafter may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.



(C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith
shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 94-1210, 6-20-1994)



4-6-12: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:



This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances, and portions of ordinance
94-1210, adopted by the city council to fulfill the requirements of the
national flood insurance program. However, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the
program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord.
00-1632, 12-18-2000)



4-6-13: SEPARABILITY:



The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of
the remainder. (Ord. 00-1632, 12-18-2000)



 


Notes

55 
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.

56 
765 ILCS 205/2.



CHAPTER 7
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND LOTS



4-7-1: NUMBERS REQUIRED:



Each building, whether a residence or business, and lot shall have affixed
thereto numbers corresponding with its actual address. No street numbers
shall be required for accessory structures of a nature customarily incidental
and subordinate to the use of the main building or residence on the lot.
(Ord. 95-1237, 2-20-1995)



4-7-2: DISPLAY AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS:



The owner or occupant of each building within the city limits shall display
the street number of such building in numerals clearly visible from the
street on which said building fronts. Such numerals shall be at least three
inches (3") in height and shall be placed on the front of each building, or
on the front curb or on a porch, pole or other sign in front of said building
providing that such numerals are clearly visible from the street. The owner
of an unimproved lot shall not be required to display the street number of
such lot. (Ord. 95-1237, 2-20-1995)



4-7-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:



The failure of any owner or occupant of a building within the city to display
the street number of such building in compliance with this chapter shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter. After investigation, the police
department or its designees may determine a violation of the minimum
requirements of this chapter exists and shall notify such owner or occupant
in writing of such violation. If such owner or occupant fails after ten (10)
days to correct the violation, such owner or occupant may be issued a
citation noting violation of this chapter and upon conviction shall be
subject to a fine not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day which an owner of a
building or lot fails to comply with this chapter shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 95-1237, 2-20-1995)



4-7-4: REFUSAL TO CONNECT OR DISCONNECTION OF UTILITIES:



The city shall have the right to refuse to connect or disconnect city
utilities to any building or lot within the city which does not display a
street number in compliance with this chapter in the same manner as if the
owner's utility account with the city had remained unpaid pursuant to the
appropriate city ordinances. (Ord. 95-1237, 2-20-1995)



CHAPTER 8
WATER CONNECTIONS



4-8-1: SERVICE CONNECTION PERMITS; CHARGES:



(A)   Permit Required: No connections with the waterworks system shall be
made without a permit issued by the city. All such connections shall be made
by city work forces under the supervision of the director of public works,
and no connections shall be covered until the work has been inspected to the
satisfaction of the city. Whenever any premises shall hereafter be connected
with the waterworks system, a charge shall be made.



(B)   Connections Required: The owner, occupant or party or parties in
possession of any house, structure, factory, industrial or commercial
establishment or any other building or structure of any other character which
uses water and is located on property within the corporate limits shall cause
such house, structure, factory, industrial or commercial establishment or any
other building or structure of any other character to be connected with the
waterworks system within ninety (90) days from the date that water facilities
become available to such property and before habitation in any home or use of
any structure. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; TURN ON FEE:



(A)   Application: No water from the waterworks system shall be turned on
for service into any premises by any person but the city. Application to have
water turned on shall be made in writing to the city clerk and shall contain
an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of the provisions of
this chapter as conditions governing the use and service of the waterworks
system by the applicant.



(B)   Turn On Fee: A fee shall be paid for turning on the water. Said fee
shall be determined and set by the city council pursuant to resolutions.
(Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-3: WATER SERVICE INSTALLATIONS:



All service pipes and laterals from the waterworks system (water mains) to
the meter shall be installed by the city, for a distance not to exceed sixty
feet (60') for a cost of two hundred dollars ($200.00). For any service pipes
and laterals from the waterworks system exceeding sixty feet (60') or
three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter, the charge shall be for material and
labor and billed to the customer. If such water service must cross a city or
state road or alley that requires boring and casing, the cost of such boring
and/or casing shall be borne by the applicant for the service or owner of the
property being served. All expense for more than sixty feet (60') shall be at
the cost of and installed by the owner of the property to be served or the
applicant for the service. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-4: REPAIRS TO SYSTEM:



All repairs for service pipes and laterals from the waterworks system (water
mains) to the meter shall be made by and at the expense of the city. From the
meter or valve to the property being served, all repairs and excavations
shall be by and at the expense of the property owner or the applicant. (Ord.
99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-5: CROSS CONNECTIONS:



(A)   If in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment
of the city building official an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the city building
official will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved
device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install
such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois plumbing code and all applicable local regulations and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices as required by the
Illinois plumbing code and local regulations.



(B)   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city
enters the supply or distribution system of the municipality, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the city building official and
the Illinois environmental protection agency.



(C)   It shall be the duty of the director of public works to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two (2) years, or as often as the director of public works shall deem
necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for
review for a period of at least five (5) years.



(D)   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have
the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection
to the public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the director of
public works or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the director of public works any information which he
may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the director of public works, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this section.



(E)   The city administrator or the director of public works of the city
is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to
the occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any
connection in violation of the provisions of this section is known to exist,
and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to
eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution
mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this section, and until a reconnection fee is paid to the city.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the city
administrator or the director of public works is assured that imminent danger
of harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such
action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection.



(F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-6: WATER SERVICE PIPE:



All water services used or laid in the city shall be of K copper construction
or other materials as approved by the director of public works of the city.
(Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-7: COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING REGULATIONS:



No water shall be turned on for service in any premises in which the plumbing
does not comply with the ordinances of the city provided, that water may be
turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-8: EXCAVATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS:



Excavations for installing service pipes and laterals or repairing the same
shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to making
excavations in streets, provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any
service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drainpipe or
sewer lateral. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-9: WATER SERVICE TO MORE THAN ONE PREMISES:



No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water pipes into any two
(2) distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks
shall be placed on the outside of each such premises along the sidewalk
opposite the same, nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings
to adjoining premises. Duplex flats, double houses and apartment houses shall
be considered as one "premises". A "premises" shall be construed to cover all
buildings and divisions under one common roof, owned by one party, who will
be charged for all services to such premises. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-10: METERS REQUIRED:



All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
water meter capable of measuring in gallons. All meters placed in service on
any premises using the city water supply will be provided and owned by the
water department which retains the right to inspect, repair and replace them
upon reasonable notice to the owner of the premises.



When a meter owned by the city is placed in service, other than as a
replacement for a meter owned by the city already in use, the property owner
or other person receiving such service shall make a deposit as herein
specified. When a meter owned by the city is placed in service as a
replacement for a privately owned meter, the property owner, other person
receiving such service, will make a deposit as herein provided, unless the
privately owned meter is received in exchange by the water department.



The following deposits are hereby established, based on the connection
diameter:




   Inlet/Outlet   Deposit
   Diameter   Required





   3/4 inch   $250.00





   1 inch   250.00





   1 1/4 inch   250.00





   1 1/2 inch   250.00





   2 inch   500.00





   Over 2 inches   500.00




(Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-11: RESALE OF WATER; UNAUTHORIZED USE:



No water supplied by the waterworks system of the city shall be resold by any
user, without the express written consent of the city. No water user may
supply water to other families or allow them to take it, except for use on
the premises and for the purpose specified in such user's approved
application, not after water is introduced into any building or upon the
premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap or
connection with work upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions
or attachments without written permit therefor. Resale or unauthorized use of
water shall be grounds for discontinuance of water service to the user, or
the premises, or both. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-12: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO METERS:



(A)   Installation: Meters shall be installed in a location that will
provide easy access thereto.



(B)   Reading Meters: The city shall read or cause to be read every water
meter used in the city at such times as are necessary so that the bills may
be sent out at the proper times.



(C)   Testing Meters: Upon request or complaint of the consumer, any water
meter shall be tested for accuracy. If, upon testing, the meter is found to
be over three percent (3%) off in accuracy, the meter shall be replaced at no
cost to the consumer. If the meter is found to be three percent (3%) or less
in accuracy, then the consumer shall pay the cost of testing.



(D)   Required For New Construction: Any house or building constructed
within the city or constructed outside of the city and using city water must
have installed a meter that will service each individual user located upon
any new constructed property. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-13: LIABILITY:



(A)   Service Failures: All waterworks service supplied by the waterworks
system shall be upon the express condition that the city shall not be liable
nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by reason
of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said system or any part or portion thereof, or
for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of machinery, or
by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals.



(B)   Service Interruption: The city reserves the right to shut off water
at any time in the mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making
connections with or extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in
any part of the city in case of fire, and for restricting the use of water in
case of deficiency in supply, including the suspension of the use of water
for sprinkling lawns or gardens. No claim shall be made against the city by
reason of the breaking of any service pipe or service cock, or damage arising
from shutting off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants
or other connections, or repairing any part of the water system, or from
failure of the water supply, or by increasing the water pressure at any time,
or from concentrated or restricted use of water as above. (Ord. 99-1498,
5-17-1999)



4-8-14: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:



It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city council to
tamper with, alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or supply
system, or any meter. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-15: RIGHT OF ACCESS; USE INSPECTION:



The city and its employees and the Illinois environmental protection agency
shall have ready access at all reasonable times to the premises, places or
buildings where water service is supplied for the purpose of inspecting,
examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent or obstruct the city or
its duly authorized agent or the Illinois environmental protection agency in
its duties hereunder. Every user of the system shall take the same upon the
conditions prescribed in this section. (Ord. 99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-16: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:



(A)   The director of public works and other duly authorized employees of
the city and the Illinois environmental protection agency, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and
testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.



(B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to hereinabove, the director of public works or duly authorized employees of
the city and the Illinois environmental protection agency shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to city employees and the
city shall indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as required
herein.



(C)   The director of public works and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the waterworks lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord.
99-1498, 5-17-1999)



4-8-17: PENALTIES:



(A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
except section 4-8-16 of this chapter shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall,
within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.



(B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection (A) of this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.



(C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reasons of such violation. (Ord. 99-1498,
5-17-1999)



4-8-18: VALIDITY:



(A)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.



(B)   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of
this chapter shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter
which can be given effect without such invalid part or parts. (Ord. 99-1498,
5-17-1999)



CHAPTER 9
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES



4-9-1: PURPOSE:



The primary intent of this chapter is to regulate telecommunications towers
and equipment to be located within the city of Flora, its zoning jurisdiction
or on property owned by the city. Therefore, the purpose of this chapter
shall be to:



(A)   Comply with all federal and state regulations regarding the
placement, use, and maintenance of telecommunications towers and equipment.



(B)   Encourage the continued improvement of wireless telecommunications
service in the city.



(C)   Minimize, to the extent permitted by law, the proliferation of
towers and equipment throughout the city.



(D)   Promote both property maintenance and renovation of
telecommunications equipment.



(E)   Encourage the use of collocation of telecommunications towers by
multiple providers so as to reduce the number of towers needed within the
city and its zoning jurisdiction.



(F)   Ensure that these regulations are compatible with the zoning
regulations.



(G)   Recognize the commercial communication requirements of all sectors
of the business and residential community. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-2: DEFINITIONS:



ANTENNA: Any structure or device not exceeding twenty feet (20') in height
which is used for the purpose of collecting or transmitting electromagnetic
waves, including, but not limited to, directional antennas, such as panels,
microwave dishes, and satellite dishes and omnidirectional antennas, such as
whip antennas.



ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (ATTACHED WCF): An antenna that is
attached to an existing building or structure, which structures shall
include, but not be limited to, church steeples, signs, water towers, with
any accompanying pole or device which attaches the antenna to the existing
building or structure and associated connection cables, and an accessory
building which may be located either inside or outside of the attachment
structure.



COLLOCATION/SITE SHARING: Use of a common WCF or common site by two (2) or
more wireless license holders or by one wireless license holder for more than
one type of communications technology and/or placement of a WCF on a
structure owned or operated by a utility or other public entity.



COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES: Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services, including cellular, personal communication
services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized
mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that are marketed to the
general public.



EQUIPMENT FACILITY: A shelter, building or similar structure used to contain
ancillary equipment for a WCF which includes cabinets, shelters, a build out
of an existing structure, pedestals, and other similar structures.



FAA: The federal aviation administration.



FCC: The federal communications commission.



FTA: The federal telecommunications act of 1996, and any amendments thereto.



HEIGHT: When referring to a WCF, shall mean the distance measured from ground
level to the highest point on the WCF, excluding the antenna array. In all
other circumstances, "height" shall have its common meaning.



PERMIT: A permit issued by the city specifically for the location,
construction and use of a WCF subject to an approved site plan and any
special conditions determined by the zoning administrator to be appropriate
under the provision of this chapter.



SETBACK: The required distance from the property line of the parcel on which
the WCF is located to the perimeter fence surrounding the support structure,
or, in the case of guywire supports, the guy anchors.



SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A structure designed and constructed specifically to
support an antenna, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice)
tower, guywire support tower and other similar structures. Any device which
is used to attach an attached WCF to an existing building or structure shall
be excluded from this definition.



TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (Hereinafter Referred To As
TEMPORARY WCF): A WCF to be placed and used for ninety (90) or fewer days.



TOWER: Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, antenna, structure, or
combination thereof, taller than fifteen feet (15'), including supporting
lines, cables, wires, braces and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of
mounting an antenna, meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade.



WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS: Any personal wireless services as defined in the
telecommunications act of 1996, which includes FCC licensed commercial
wireless telecommunications services including cellular, personal
communication services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobile radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently
exist or that may in the future be developed.



WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (Hereinafter Referred To As WCF): Any
facility used for the transmission and/or reception of wireless
telecommunications services, and consisting of all or a part of the
following: an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment facility, and a
support structure. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-3: EXCLUSION:



This chapter shall not govern the following:



(A)   The installation of any amateur radio facility that is owned and
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator.



(B)   Installation of receive only antennas.



(C)   Antennas used exclusively for consumer internet connection.



Such installations shall comply with all other applicable provisions of the
zoning code. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-4: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS:



All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city and its zoning jurisdiction shall comply with the
following requirements:



(A)   All applications shall be by special use permit. The planning and
zoning board shall review every application and determine its compliance with
this chapter.



(B)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved unless the planning and zoning board finds that
the telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or previously approved tower or building,
particularly on publicly owned land within a one-half (1/2) mile search
radius of the proposed tower due to one or more of the following reasons:



1. The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of all existing
or approved towers or buildings, as documented by a qualified licensed
professional engineer, and all of the existing or approved towers cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate the planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.



2. The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting the
usability of other existing or planned equipment at a tower or building as
documented by a qualified licensed professional engineer and interference
cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.



3. Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius cannot
accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to function
reasonably as documented by a qualified licensed professional engineer.



4. The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner in order
to share an existing tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs
exceeding new tower development are presumed to be unreasonable.



5. Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the planned
telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or building.



(C)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all respects to
accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at
least two (2) additional users if the tower is over one hundred feet (100')
in height, or for at least one additional user if the tower is over sixty
feet (60') in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future
rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at
varying heights.



(D)   The following sites shall be considered by applicants as the
preferred order to location of proposed wireless facilities including
antenna(s), equipment, and accessory buildings. As determined feasible, and
in order of preference, the sites are:



1. Existing broadcast, relay towers and water tanks, rooftops and attachments
to existing structures excluding residential structures.



2. Public structures and sites attached to existing public facilities such as
utility properties and other public assets within nonresidential zoning
districts.



3. Industrial zones: I-1 general industrial district and I-2 industrial park
district.



4. Business zones: C-1 central commercial district and C-2 neighborhood
commercial district.



5. Agricultural zones: A-1 agricultural district and A-2 corporate
agricultural district. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-5: NONCONFORMING AND ABANDONED WCFs:



Antenna array, attached WCFs and WCFs in existence on the effective date
hereof which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter (hereinafter
referred to as "nonconforming WCF") are subject to the following provisions:



(A)   Expansion: Nonconforming WCFs may continue to be used for that
purpose existing as of the effective date hereof now used, but neither the
use nor size, nor the height, nor the physical structure of the WCF may be
increased, renewed, or expanded without complying with this chapter.



(B)   Repairs Or Reconstruction: Nonconforming WCFs which are damaged due
to any reason or cause, may be repaired and restored to its former use,
location, and physical dimensions; provided, however, that the nonconforming
WCF may not: 1) be expanded 2) otherwise increase its size or use.



(C)   Abandonment: All abandoned or unused towers and associated
facilities shall be removed within twelve (12) months of the cessation of
operations. A copy of the signed lease by the owner of the tower and the
owner of the real estate shall be supplied to the city when applying and said
lease shall require the applicant to remove the tower and associated
facilities upon cessation of operations at the site. Furthermore, said lease
shall grant to the city of Flora, Illinois, the right of ingress and egress
to said cell tower over, across and through any adjacent lands owned by the
lessor under said lease allowing the city to access said tower. In the event
the owner of said tower fails to remove said tower in a timely manner, the
tower and associated facilities may be removed by the city at the cost and
expense to the owner of said tower and/or the owner of said real estate upon
which tower is situated. The city may retain ownership of said tower after
removal for the city's use or resale.



(D)   Nonutilized: Unused portions of towers above utilized communications
or other electrical equipment shall be removed within six (6) months of the
time of antenna relocation. The replacement of portions of a tower previously
removed requires the issuance of a new building permit and special use permit
as applicable. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-6: TOWER CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:



(A)   Permits:



1. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct in a place, place or reerect, replace or repair any tower without
first making application to the city and securing a permit therefor as
hereinafter provided.



2. The applicant shall provide, at the time of application, sufficient
information to indicate that construction, installation, and maintenance of
the antenna and tower will not create a safety hazard or damage to the
property of other persons.



3. The applicant shall provide written certification from a licensed
professional engineer that the provision of commercial wireless communication
services would be prohibited unless a tower is constructed at or near the
location requested.



(B)   Fee: The city council of the city of Flora shall set by ordinance
any permit fees which may be applicable.



(C)   Construction Requirements: All antennas and towers erected,
constructed, or modified within the city and its zoning jurisdiction, and all
wiring therefor, shall comply with the following requirements:



1. All applicable provisions of this code.



2. The tower shall be certified by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer to conform to the latest structural standards and wind loading
requirements of the building codes of the city of Flora, Illinois, or any
amendments thereto.



3. With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service connection
lines, no part of any antenna or tower, nor any lines, cable, equipment,
wires or braces in connection with either, shall at any time extend across or
over any part of the right of way, public street, highway, sidewalk or
property line.



4. Towers and associated antennas shall be designed to conform with accepted
electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with the building
codes and electrical codes of the city of Flora, Illinois, or the amendments
thereto.



5. All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower and antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet (8') above the
ground at all points unless buried underground.



6. Every tower affixed to the ground shall be protected and enclosed by a
security fence not less than eight feet (8') in height to discourage climbing
of the tower by unauthorized persons. Fence shall be set back from facility a
minimum of ten feet (10').



7. All towers shall be constructed to conform with the requirements of the
occupational safety and health administration.



8. Antennas and towers shall not be erected in residential zoning districts,
including R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-1, MF-2 or mobile home park zoning districts.



9. Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with corrosive resistant
material. Wood poles are prohibited.



10. The applicant must request approval of a special use permit from the
Flora planning and zoning board for placement of any tower.



11. For municipal properties, attached WCFs and new support structures shall
be allowable with approved building permit and necessary agreements. (Ord.
04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:



(A)   Tower And Antenna Design Requirements: Proposed or modified towers
and antennas in all zoning districts shall be of a monopole design unless the
planning and zoning board determines that an alternative design would better
blend into the surrounding environment.



(B)   Tower Setbacks: Towers shall conform with the following minimum
setback requirement:



1. Attached WCFs are exempt from any setback standards beyond those of the
existing structure upon which WCF is to be attached. An attached WCF antenna
may extend up to five feet (5') horizontally beyond the edge of the
attachment structure so long as the antenna does not encroach upon an
adjoining parcel.



2. Minimum setback for WCFs with support structures shall be as follows:



I-1 General Industrial District And



I-2 Industrial Park District




Front   Side   Rear





75 feet   25 feet   35 feet




C-1 Central Commercial District And



C-2 Neighborhood Commercial District




Front   Side   Rear





25 feet without   10 feet   20 feet





parking, 50 feet





with parking




A-1 Agricultural District And



A-2 Corporate Agricultural District




Front   Side   Rear





60 feet    35 feet    50 feet




(C)   Tower Height: Towers placed within any industrial, business, and
commercial districts shall not exceed one hundred seventy five feet (175') in
height from existing grade or, if attached to an existing building, two
hundred feet (200') less the distance from the existing grade to the point of
attachment.



A variation to this height requirement may be granted by the city zoning
board after receiving an application therefor and holding a public hearing. A
variation from the height requirement in this section shall be granted by the
zoning board only if the applicant establishes by clear and convincing
evidence that it will be unable to provide wireless communication services
without such a variation. Under no circumstance shall a tower be erected to a
height greater than that required to provide wireless communication services.



(D)   Tower Lighting: Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means
and shall not display any strobe or flashing lights unless such lighting is
required by the federal aviation administration or other federal or state
authority for a particular tower.



(E)   Signs And Advertising: Signs no larger than six (6) square feet may
display warning, equipment information, emergency telephone numbers and may
be placed on towers.



All other signs, including signs used for advertising purposes, logos,
decals, flags, or symbols are prohibited. The owner of said tower shall place
thereon a sign no smaller than twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12")
identifying the owner of the tower, address and emergency telephone number.



(F)   Security Fencing: WCFs and support structures shall be enclosed by a
security fence not less than eight feet (8') in height as approved by the
building official. Security features may be incorporated into the buffer,
landscaping and screening requirements for the site. Fence shall be set back
from facility a minimum of ten feet (10').



(G)   Radio Frequency Emissions/Sound: The FCC maintains jurisdiction over
radio frequency (RF) emissions. WCFs shall comply with FCC standards, as
amended from time to time. The permittee, upon the written request of the
building official, shall provide evidence to the city that the permittee's
WCF is in compliance with said FCC standards governing RF emissions. Permits
shall not be denied on the basis of RF emissions. Permit applicants shall
provide information with the application on the measurement of the effective
radiated power of the facility and how this meets the FCC standards. (Ord.
04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-8: APPLICATION MATERIALS:



All development applications for towers shall include written documentation
evidencing compliance with each provision of this chapter as well as the
applicable zoning regulations in addition to the following supplemental
information:



(A)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which:



1. Describes the tower height and design, including a cross section in
elevation;



2. Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting positions for
collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between antennas;



3. Describes the tower's capacity, including the number and type of antennas
that it can accommodate;



4. Documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid interference with
established public safety telecommunications;



5. Includes a licensed and professional engineer's stamp and registration
number;



6. Includes other information necessary to evaluate the request.



(B)   Architectural drawings depicting the constructed tower with
camouflaging treatment set in the surrounding area. These drawings shall
include at least one perspective from the north, south, east, and west.



(C)   An overhead map of the site showing a one mile radius of the subject
tower's location, as well as the location of each of the applicant's existing
and planned future tower sites.



(D)   For all commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a
letter of intent committing the tower owner and his or her successors to
allow the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to
meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.



(E)   Before the issuance of a building permit, the following supplemental
information shall be provided:



1. Proof that the proposed tower complies with regulations administered by
the federal aviation administration; and



2. Proof that the proposed tower complies with the emission standards
promulgated by the federal communications commission and ANSI and IEEE; and



3. Report from a qualified and licensed and professional engineer which
demonstrates the tower's compliance with the aforesaid structural and
electrical standards; and



4. Proof of technological evidence which indicates that the height of the
tower requested is the minimum necessary to fulfill the cell site's function.
(Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-9: TEMPORARY WCFs:



Temporary WCFs may be allowed by the building official for a period not to
exceed ninety (90) days. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:



All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revocable pursuant to
this section.



Upon discovery of a violation of this chapter, the building official shall
serve a notice of violations on the permittee by mailing such written notice
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the permittee's address shown
on the permit. The notice of violation shall identify the permittee, the
permit, the nature of the violation, the date of discovery of the violation,
and a statement that the permittee's permit may be revoked for such
violation. The permittee shall have ninety (90) days to correct said
violation. After the ninety (90) days, if compliance is not received, a
citation shall be issued. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-11: SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:



Any applicant seeking a variance or special use pursuant to this chapter and
any amendments thereto, may do so by applying to the zoning board of the city
of Flora, Illinois. Process and procedure shall be the same or similar to the
process for obtaining a variance or special use permit under the provisions
of the zoning ordinances of the city of Flora including filing of a petition,
public notice and a hearing of the zoning board. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-12: FINDINGS AND DECISIONS:



Any action of the zoning board pursuant to this chapter shall be submitted to
the city council of the city of Flora for approval or disapproval or
amendment by said council. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



4-9-13: PENALTY:



Violation of this chapter shall be deemed a civil ordinance violation and
shall be punishable in accordance with this code and the statutes of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 04-1833, 3-15-2004)



TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS



CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT



5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:



There is established a fire department for the city. The volunteer fire
department, consisting of thirty five (35) members, constitutes the fire
department. Members may be added from time to time by the department, in
accordance with its rules and bylaws. The fire department shall choose its
chief, who shall hold office for one year and until his successor is elected
57 . (1956 Code, Sec. 2.01; amd. Ord. 76-314, 5-17-1976)



5-1-2: CHIEF, POWERS AND DUTIES:



(A)   The chief of the fire department shall have full command and control
over the fire department, and over all the members thereof, subject to the
constitution and bylaws of the department and the direction of the council.
He shall have the general care and custody of all the property and equipment
belonging to the fire department, and shall personally see to all repairs
thereto required to be made from time to time.



(B)   The chief shall from time to time make a written report to the mayor
and council of all fires with such recommendations relative to the fire
department, and its equipment and needs, as he may deem necessary to properly
protect the city against fires.



(C)   The fire department shall respond at once to all fire alarms and use
its utmost effort to put out all fires and save and protect property from
fires. The chief shall attend all fires occurring within the city, and take
command of the organization, and shall see that the members of the department
faithfully perform their duties. With the concurrence of the mayor or of any
two (2) commissioners the chief may order the tearing down, removal or
blowing up of any building, when it is necessary in his judgment to check the
progress of any fire; and in case of the absence of the mayor or two (2)
commissioners from the city, the chief may order the removal or blowing up of
a building, upon his own judgment. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.02)



5-1-3: TERMINATION OF OFFICE, RECORDS:



Upon the expiration of his term of office or his resignation, the chief shall
deliver over to his successor in office, all books, papers, records,
equipment and all other property of every description, in his possession,
belonging to the city or the fire department. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.03)



5-1-4: CONSTITUTION AND BYLAWS:



The members of the fire department may make their own constitution and
bylaws, provided they do not conflict with any provision of this chapter; and
the constitution and bylaws of the fire department heretofore adopted by it,
are approved. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.04)



5-1-5: COMPENSATION:



The members of the fire department shall be paid such compensation as the
council may from time to time prescribe. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.05)



5-1-6: USE OF APPARATUS:



No person shall use any hose or fire apparatus belonging to the department,
for any private purpose, without the consent of the council or the chief.
(1956 Code, Sec. 2.06)



5-1-7: PROPERTY SAVED FROM FIRE:



No person shall remove or be permitted to remove or take away any property in
the possession of the fire department saved from any fire, until proof of the
ownership thereof has been made to the satisfaction of the chief. (1956 Code,
Sec. 2.07)



5-1-8: POLICE POWERS TO MEMBERS:



The mayor, any commissioner, the chief or any member of the fire department,
or any policeman shall arrest any person violating any law or code provision
during the progress of a fire; and if necessary, detain the offender
overnight or over Sunday until such person can be brought before the proper
officer and dealt with according to law. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.08)



5-1-9: HINDERING FIRE DEPARTMENT:



No person shall wilfully resist, obstruct or hinder any member of the fire
department in the performance of his duty at any fire, or in going to or
returning from any fire. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.09)



5-1-10: INJURING APPARATUS:



No person shall wilfully and maliciously injure, break or deface any fire
apparatus of the fire department. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.10)



5-1-11: REGULATIONS GOVERNING FIRE DEPARTMENT:



The mayor and council shall have and exercise a general supervision over the
fire department and property, and shall, in concurrence with the chief of the
fire department, establish rules and regulations for the government hereof,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter. The mayor and council
shall see that the organization of the fire department is efficiently
preserved, its records properly kept, and its rules and regulations duly
observed by the members. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.11)



5-1-12: MEETINGS, REFUSAL TO ATTEND:



Any member of the fire department refusing to attend any regular or called
meeting of the department, or refusing to respond to any fire alarm, shall be
fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than ten dollars ($10.00),
unless excused by a majority of the fire department with the approval of the
council. The fine shall be paid into the treasury of the fire department.
(1956 Code, Sec. 2.12)



5-1-13: TREASURER:



(A)   A treasurer shall be elected annually by the fire department, at the
same time and in the same manner as other officers of the department are
elected. The treasurer holds office for the period of one year and until his
successor is elected and qualified.



(B)   No person is qualified for the office of treasurer of the fire
department unless he is an actual resident of the city of the age of twenty
one (21) years or over. If any treasurer after his election ceases to be an
actual resident and citizen of the city, or ceases to be a member of the fire
department, his office ceases and his successor shall immediately be elected
by the fire department to fill such unexpired term. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.13)



5-1-14: BOND OF TREASURER:



Before entering upon the duties of his office the treasurer of the fire
department shall execute a bond, payable to the city, in the penal sum of
five hundred dollars ($500.00), with two (2) good and sufficient sureties, to
be approved by the council, conditioned that he will faithfully discharge the
duties of his office according to law and the provisions of this code, and
that he will faithfully account for all monies coming into his hands, and pay
out the same upon the order of the fire department, and that he will turn
over and deliver to his successor in office all monies, books and papers,
vouchers and all other property pertaining to his office and in his custody
or keeping and under his control. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.14)



5-1-15: BOOKS OF ACCOUNT:



The fire department shall procure suitable books of account for the use of
the treasurer and the treasurer shall enter therein a detailed account of all
monies received and paid out by him, and the source and purpose of such
receipts and payments. No money shall be withdrawn or paid from the funds in
the hands of the treasurer, except upon a written order of the fire
department, signed by the chief and countersigned by the secretary of the
fire department. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.15)



5-1-16: EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS:



No money shall be drawn from or paid out of the funds in the hands of the
treasurer, except upon motion or resolution, adopted at a regular or special
meeting of the department. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.16)



5-1-17: FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED:



The treasurer of the fire department shall deposit all monies coming into his
hands by virtue of his office, in such bank as the department may by
resolution direct. The funds shall be deposited in the name of "The Flora
Fire Department". All checks drawn against such funds shall be signed: "The
Flora Fire Department, by                       Treasurer", the
treasurer signing his name in the blank. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.17)



5-1-18: RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES:



At each regular meeting of the fire department the treasurer shall render to
the department a written itemized account of his receipts and expenditures.
The account shall cover the period of time which has elapsed since his last
report. At the annual meeting held for the election of officers he shall
render a full written itemized account of all monies received and expended,
and a report of all other transactions in connection with his office for the
past year. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.18)



5-1-19: ANNUAL AUDIT:



Immediately prior to the annual election of officers of the fire department
the council shall have the books and accounts of the treasurer of the fire
department audited and report thereof made to the council and to the fire
department of the findings in relation thereto. The treasurer shall upon
request of the council, meet with any auditor selected by it, and disclose
his books and accounts, and render to him such assistance as he may require
to audit the account. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.19)



5-1-20: TAX RECEIPTS, INSURANCE COMPANIES:



Immediately upon the election and qualification of a treasurer of the fire
department, the city treasurer shall pay over to the treasurer of the fire
department all monies collected and received by him from foreign fire
insurance companies, doing business in the city pursuant to the provisions of
this code and statutes of the state of Illinois in relation to the tax on
foreign fire insurance companies. The city treasurer shall hereafter, from
time to time, as money is collected from such insurance companies pursuant to
the provisions of this code and statutes of the state of Illinois,
immediately pay over such money so collected and received to the treasurer of
the fire department 58 . (1956 Code, Sec. 2.20)



5-1-21: USE OF FUNDS FOR MAINTENANCE:



All money paid over to the treasurer of the fire department, pursuant to the
provisions of section 5-1-20 of this chapter, shall be used by the department
for the purpose of the maintenance and benefit of the department, in the
purchase of necessary supplies, equipment and firefighting apparatus, and the
perfecting and installation of a fire alarm system in the city. No part of
the funds shall be used for private purposes, or for the use and benefit of
any member or members of the fire department. (1956 Code, Sec. 2.21)



 


Notes

57 
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4 et seq.

58 
65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 et seq.



CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION CODE



5-2-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:



  The city of Flora, Illinois hereby adopts the 2006 International Fire
Code, and any amendments thereto for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion
and that the same are hereby adopted as fully set forth therein.  (Ord.
69-73, 5-5-1969; Ord. 09-2231, 4-6-2009)



5-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:



The International Fire Code as adopted by the city shall be enforced by the
fire chief with the assistance of the city building official of the city.
(Ord. 69-73, 5-5-1969; Ord. 09-2231, 4-6-2009)



5-2-3: MODIFICATIONS:



The fire chief with the assistance of the city building official shall have
power to modify any of the provisions of the code hereby adopted upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent,
when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed,
public safety secured, and the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the city are not endangered. The particulars of such modification when
granted or allowed and the decision of the fire chief or the city building
official shall be granted in writing to the applicant and copies retained by
the city hall and the fire department. (Ord. 69-73, 5-5-1969; Ord. 09-2231,
4-6-2009)



5-2-4: APPEALS:



Whenever the fire chief or city building official disapprove an application
or refuse to grant permission for continued use applied for, or when it is
claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or the true intent and
meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from the decision of the fire chief or the city building
official to the city council within thirty (30) days from the date of the
decision and said hearing by the council will occur within thirty (30) days
thereafter. (Ord. 69-73, 5-5-1969; Ord. 09- 2231, 4-6-2009)



5-2-5: VIOLATION:



(A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code
hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted thereunder, or any
certificate or permission issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has
been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the city or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The imposition
of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it
to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.



(B)   The application of the above penalties shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 69-73, 5-5-1969)



CHAPTER 3
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS



5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:




The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except when the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:





COSTS: Costs incurred by the city of Flora shall include all costs and
expenses of the city of Flora in connection with the cleanup or abatement of
the discharge of hazardous materials and shall include, but shall not be
necessarily limited to, the following: actual labor costs of the city
personnel involved in the cleanup or abatement of the discharge (including
workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits and administrative overhead);
costs of equipment operation, damage and loss of any equipment, cost of
materials obtained by the city to abate said incident and discharge and the
cost of any contract labor or materials furnished by third parties to abate
said discharge.





DISCHARGE: To leak, seep, spill, emit or release, or leakage, seepage, spill,
emission or other release.





HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is to be determined
by the fire chief, assistant fire chief or other authorized representative
from the fire department, to pose an unreasonable and eminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiological
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.





OCCURRENCE: Any discharge or threatened discharge of hazardous materials.





RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person who owns, leases, operates or controls any
facility, equipment or vehicles from which a discharge of hazardous materials
has occurred or from which such a discharge has or was threatened to occur.
(Ord. 06-2008, 8-7-2006)




5-3-2: DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS; CLEANUP OR ABATEMENT; LIABILITY FOR
COSTS:



(A)   The fire department is authorized to clean up or abate the effects
of any hazardous material discharged upon or into any property or facilities
within the city of Flora, Illinois, where such discharge creates a hazard to
individuals, property or the environment. The fire department may be assisted
in such cleanup or abatement by any other city department or independent
contractors, as necessary to protect against or eliminate such hazards.
Furthermore, the fire department is authorized to clean up or abate the
effects of any hazardous material discharged upon or into any property or
facilities outside the city of Flora, but within the fire protection
district, including acting as and through mutual aid to another department.



(B)   Any person or entity by and through its employees, agents or
otherwise, who intentionally, unintentionally, negligently, or otherwise
causes such a discharge of hazardous materials and any person or entity who
owns and controls the hazardous materials container at the time of discharge
shall be jointly and severally liable to the city of Flora as a result of
such cleanup or abatement by the city.



(C)   The authority to recover costs under this section shall include any
and all necessary costs and expenditures to abate said hazardous discharge or
prevent the same.



(D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be in addition to any
other remedies provided by law. (Ord. 06-2008, 8-7-2006)



5-3-3: BILLING PERSONS RESPONSIBLE; PAYMENT TO CITY:



(A)   The city shall, within sixty (60) days of the completion of the
cleanup or abatement of any hazardous material discharge, send an invoice for
the costs incurred by the city in connection with such discharge to the
person or entity as defined hereinabove to be responsible for such discharge.



(B)   The person or entity responsible for such hazardous material
discharge shall submit payment for the costs to the city of Flora within
thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice from the city of Flora.



(C)   Any person or entity determined by the city of Flora to be
responsible for payment of such costs and expenditures to clean up, abate or
prevent a hazardous materials discharge shall be liable for any and all costs
of collection of the amounts found to be due by the city including, but not
limited to, attorney fees and court costs. (Ord. 06-2008, 8-7-2006)



TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS



CHAPTER 1
AUXILIARY UNIT



6-1-1: ESTABLISHED:



There is hereby established an auxiliary to the regular police force of the
city. Such auxiliary shall be known as "The Flora Police Auxiliary Unit", and
shall consist of a number of members as may, from time to time, be authorized
by the chief of police of the city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 15-2674,
2-17-2015)



6-1-2: SEPARATE FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT:



The police auxiliary unit shall not be considered members of the regular
police department of the city and shall not function on a full time basis.
Identification symbols of members of the police auxiliary unit shall be
distinct and different from that worn and displayed by the police department
members. (Ord. 15-2674, 2-17-2015)



6-1-3: SUPERVISION:



The members of the police auxiliary unit shall at all times during the
performance of their duties, be subject to and act only under the direction
and control of the chief of police of the city and shall not be conservators
of the peace. (Ord. 15-2674, 2-17-2015)



6-1-4: APPOINTMENT AND STANDARDS FOR APPOINTMENT:



The members of the police auxiliary unit shall be appointed by the mayor,
with the advice and consent of the city council and upon recommendation by
the chief of police of the city of Flora, Illinois. No person shall be an
auxiliary police officer who has not been fingerprinted, subject to a
background check and found to have never been convicted of a felony or other
crime involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 15-2674, 2-17-2015)



6-1-5: COMPENSATION:



Members of the police auxiliary unit shall receive no monetary compensation
for their services from the city. Services may be rendered by the police
auxiliary to private firms, organizations, groups and functions as allowed by
law and at the discretion of the chief of police. Compensation for services
may be paid to individual members providing such service at a rate agreeable
between the parties and with the approval of the chief of police. (Ord.
15-2674, 2-17-2015)



6-1-6: UNIFORM, EQUIPMENT AND IDENTIFICATION:



The uniforms and equipment for each member of the police auxiliary unit shall
be furnished by the city and shall remain the property of the city and said
uniforms shall be approved by the chief of police. The funding for the
uniforms and equipment shall be included in the annual budget of the city
under the police department. Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary
police officer shall be different and distinct from those used by the regular
city of Flora police department. (Ord. 15-2674, 2-17-2015)



6-1-7: FIREARMS, TRAINING AND STATUS:



Auxiliary police officers shall not be "conservators of the peace" and shall
only carry firearms while on duty, with the permission of the chief of
police, and only after completing the state certified  forty (40)-hour
mandatory firearms training course as provided under 50 ILCS 710/2. 
Auxiliary police officers shall not be considered to be members of the
regular police department, and shall not supplement members of the regular
police department of the city in the performance of their assigned and normal
duties except as otherwise provided herein. (Ord. 15-2674, 2-17-2015)



6-1-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:



Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the following
duties in the city of Flora:



(A)   To aid or direct traffic within the municipality assisting in
traffic control.



(B)   To aid in control of natural or man-made disasters.



(C)   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the chief of police.



(D)   Perform other such duties as may be directed by the chief of police.
(Ord. 15-2674, 2-17-2015)



CHAPTER 2
CIVIL EMERGENCIES



6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:



CIVIL EMERGENCY: (A) A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by
immediate power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting together
without authority of law; or



(B) Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood, conflagration,
cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate limits of the
city, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the destruction of
property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to
protect the public health, safety and welfare.



CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially
designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (Ord. 68-62,
6-19-1968)



6-2-2: DECLARATION BY MAYOR:



Whenever an emergency as defined in section 6-2-1 of this chapter exists, the
mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written declaration setting
forth the facts which constitute the emergency 60 . (Ord. 68-62, 6-19-1968)



6-2-3: CURFEW:



After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor, he may order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to the city as a
whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or
night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare
61 . (Ord. 68-62, 6-19-1968)



6-2-4: SPECIFY ORDERS:



After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the mayor of the city may also,
in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:



(A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.



(B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.



(C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.



(D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.



(E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property. (Ord. 68-62, 6-19-1968)



6-2-5: EFFECTIVE PERIOD:



The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of forty
eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the mayor
indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The mayor shall have
the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each
forty eight (48) hour period during the time the said civil emergency exists.
(Ord. 68-62, 6-19-1968)



6-2-6: NOTIFY NEWS MEDIA:



Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the chief of police shall
notify the news media situated within the city, and shall cause three (3)
copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be
posted at the following places within the city: the city hall, the police
station and the post office. (Ord. 68-62, 6-19-1968)



6-2-7: VIOLATION:



Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or executive order issued
pursuant thereto shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 68-62,
6-19-1968)



 


Notes

60 
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6.

61 
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5.



CHAPTER 3
MISDEMEANORS



6-3-1: ASSAULT 1 :



No person shall commit an injury, or attempt to commit an injury on the
person of another. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.05)



6-3-2: ASSISTING ESCAPE 2 :



No person shall loiter near the city jail when any prisoner is confined
therein for the purpose of assisting any prisoner to escape, or shall furnish
any prisoner with any means by which he can escape, or shall communicate or
hold conversation with any prisoner without permission of the mayor or a
commissioner. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.08)



6-3-3: ASSISTING VIOLATION 3 :



No person, being present when an offense is committed, shall wilfully aid or
in any manner encourage any other person or persons in the violation of any
provision of this code. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.32)



6-3-4: BEGGING 4 :



No person, being able to earn a livelihood, shall go about the city begging
for food or clothing. This section does not apply to persons in actual want
and unable to obtain employment. (1956 Code, Sec. 23.03)



6-3-5: BONFIRES 5 :



No bonfire for the purpose of amusement shall be made within the city except
by permission of the mayor. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.15)



6-3-6: BREAKING INTO CITY POUND 6 :



No person shall break open or in any manner assist in breaking open, any pen
or pound, wherein any animal shall be impounded; or shall take, or assist in
taking therefrom, any animal impounded, without having first redeemed the
animal. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.23)



6-3-7: CARD PLAYING IN PUBLIC PLACE:



No person or persons shall for amusement or gain play with cards or dice, or
commit any nuisance in the city park or in any buildings therein, or in any
street, alley or similar public place 68 . (1956 Code, Sec. 23.14)



6-3-8: COIN MACHINES, TAMPERING WITH:



(A)   No person shall insert or attempt to insert into the coin box or
money receptacle of any telephone, any slug, button or other substance, or
manipulate or operate or attempt to manipulate or operate any telephone
instrument or any mechanism or device connected, or commonly used therewith
with intent to obtain telephone service without paying therefor.



(B)   No person shall insert or attempt to insert into the coin box or
money receptacle of any machine or device operated by coin, whereby
merchandise is vended at retail, any slug, button or other substance, or
manipulate or operate, or attempt to manipulate or operate any vending
machine or device whereby merchandise is vended at retail, with intent to
obtain merchandise therefrom without paying therefor.



(C)   No person shall insert or attempt to insert into the coin box or
money receptacle of any telephone or vending machine, any slug, button, wire,
hook or other implements or substance with intent to obtain from such coin
box or money receptacle a legal tender coin of the United States 69 . (1956
Code, Sec. 22.24)



6-3-9: DESTRUCTION, REMOVAL OF PROPERTY:



(A)   Destruction Of Property: No person shall wilfully, recklessly or
maliciously destroy or injure any private or public property not belonging to
himself. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.17)



(B)   Removal Of Property: No person shall, in the nighttime, remove any
gate from its hinges, or take away any gate, fencing, vehicle or other
property belonging to another, from the place where the same may be found to
another place in the city, or shall wantonly injure the same. (1956 Code,
Sec. 22.18)



(C)   Defacing Signs: No person shall negligently or wilfully mar, by
marking or in any manner deface, or injure, or destroy any business sign
belonging to another. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.19)



(D)   Breaking Windows: Any person who shall, by throwing or any rude or
reckless conduct, break the glass in any door, window or showcase of the
property of another, shall immediately pay to the person injured all damages
occasioned thereby, and shall be subject to penalty. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.20)



(E)   Removal Of City Property: No person shall, without authority, remove
or carry away from the place where the same is usually kept, or where the
same shall be kept by authority of the city, any article or property
belonging to the city or the city fire department 70 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.21)



6-3-10: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:



A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly does any act in
such an unreasonable



manner as to alarm or disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace,
transmits or causes to be transmitted any false alarm or false information to
the police department, fire department or other public safety including the
city public works or otherwise, enters upon the property of another and for a
lewd or unlawful purpose or causes any other breach of the peace as defined
in the criminal code of the state of Illinois. 71 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.01;
Ord. 15-2675, 3-2-2015)



6-3-11: DISTURBING FUNERALS:



No person shall disturb, hinder or obstruct any funeral or funeral
procession, or use any loud, boisterous or indecent language to or within any
cemetery grounds, or in the presence of any funeral or funeral procession
within the city 72 . (1956 Code, Sec. 23.02)



6-3-12: DISTURBING THE PEACE:



No person shall wilfully disturb the good order or the peace and quiet of the
city by loud and tumultuous noise, threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight, fighting or other disorderly deportment, or by
offensive language 73 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.02)



6-3-13: EXCESSIVE ACCELERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES:



It shall be unlawful for any person to test the acceleration of a motor
vehicle; or accelerate a motor vehicle in such a manner so as to squeal the
rear tires or spin the rear wheels; or race a motor vehicle even though below
the maximum speed limit, upon any public street or way within the city 74 .
(Ord. 72-127, 5-15-1972)



6-3-14: FALSE ALARMS:



No person shall, by ringing a fire alarm, or in any other manner, wilfully
give a false alarm of fire 75 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.16)



6-3-15: FALSE PRETENSES:



No person shall, by means of any trick, or by the use of any artifice or
device, depending wholly or in part upon mere chance or accident, obtain or
attempt to obtain from another any money or other valuable 76 . (1956 Code,
Sec. 22.25)



6-3-16: FIGHTING:



No person shall with another or others by agreement fight within the city 77
. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.04)



6-3-17: FIREARMS:



No person, except conservators of the peace, shall discharge any firearm
within the city 78 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.11)



6-3-18: FIREWORKS:



The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive composition or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose
of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature
by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank
cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
sky rockets, Roman candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and
any fireworks containing any explosive compound; or any tablets or other
device containing any explosive substance, or containing combustible
substances producing visual effects. The term "fireworks" shall not include
snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; sparklers; trick noisemakers known
as "party poppers", "booby traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette
loads" and "auto burglar alarms"; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths
(0.25) grains or less of explosive compound are used, provided they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less
than twenty-five hundredths (0.25) grains of explosive mixture; the sale and
use of which shall be permitted at all times.



It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell
at retail or use or explode any "fireworks", as defined hereinabove, within
the city 79 .



Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a petty offense. (Ord. 88-905, 4-18-1988)



6-3-19: GAMBLING:



(A)   Gambling Prohibited: No person shall play for money, or other
valuable thing or things, at any game with cards, dice, checks, billiards or
any other article, instrument or machine whatsoever, which may be used for
the purpose of playing a game of chance, betting or winning or losing money
or any other thing or article of value or shall bet on any other game of any
type involving gambling unless such gambling is allowed pursuant to the
Statutes of the State of Illinois and any and all licenses required are
obtained for such game of chance. (1956 Code, Sec. 23.07)



(B)   Gaming Houses: No person shall keep a common gaming house; or in any
building, yard, garden or booth, by him or his agent used and occupied,
procure or permit any person or persons to frequent, or come together to play
for money or other valuable thing, at any game; or keep or suffer to be kept
any tables or other apparatus for the purpose of playing at any game or
sport, for money or any other valuable thing; or knowingly rent any such
place for such purposes or for any such purpose. (1956 Code, Sec. 23.08)



(C)   Operation Of Gambling Device: No person shall, in any room, inn,
tavern, shed, booth or building, or enclosure, or in any part thereof,
operate, keep, own, rent or use any clock, joker, tape or slot machine, or
any other device upon which money is staked or hazarded, won or lost. (1956
Code, Sec. 23.09)



(D)   Seizure Of Gambling Devices: Every clock, tape machine, slot machine
or other machine or device, for the reception of money on chance, or upon the
action of which money is staked, hazarded, bet, won or lost, is a gambling
device; and the chief of police is directed to seize, confiscate and destroy
any gambling device. (1956 Code, Sec. 23.10)



(E)   Possession Of Gambling Devices: No owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee or other person shall be in possession of any premises in and upon
which any gambling device may be located, and no person shall use or operate
a gambling device. (1956 Code, Sec. 23.11)



(F)   Closing Of Gaming Houses: All places where any persons play or are
permitted or suffered to play with cards, dice, balls, checks, or with any
other article or thing whatsoever for money or other thing or things of
value, are nuisances. The chief of police is directed, at any time that he
has knowledge that such a nuisance exists, to immediately abate the same, by
dispersing the occupants of such place, and by seizing, confiscating and
destroying any and all implements that may be found therein that may be used
for gaming. (1956 Code, Sec. 23.12)



(G)   Procedure Against Gambling And Gaming Houses: Such seizure,
confiscation and destruction above provided to be made, may be made in the
following manner: When complaint is made in writing, verified by affidavit,
to any proper officer of the city, that any of the provisions of the
preceding subsections are being violated, stating and describing the place of
such violation, the proper officer, if he is satisfied there is reasonable
cause for such belief, shall issue a warrant to search such house or place,
and to search for and seize gaming apparatus, or any implements used, or kept
and provided to be used in unlawful gaming, in any gaming house, or in any
building, apartment, or place resorted to for the purpose of unlawful gaming.
The warrant shall be a sufficient justification for the making of such search
in the nighttime. The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff or any
constable of the county, or to the chief of police, and command such officer
to search the said house or place mentioned in such complaint, and to bring
such gaming apparatus or implements, when found, and the person in whose
possession they are found, to the proper officer who issued the warrant, or
to some other proper officer having cognizance of the case. Such officer may
break open any outer or inner door or window of a house, or anything therein,
in enforcing the warrant, and in making the search and seizure, if admittance
is refused, using no more force than is necessary. The officer shall specify,
in his return, the property taken, or apparatus and implements found, and the
place where and the person from whom the same is taken. Any property,
apparatus and implements or other things which may be so seized shall be
safely kept under the direction of the proper officer, so long as the same
may be necessary for the purpose of being produced or used as evidence on any
trial. As soon as practicable afterward, all apparatus, implements and things
so seized by virtue of such warrants shall be burnt or otherwise destroyed,
under the direction of the proper officer. The costs of such proceedings
shall be adjudged against the person or persons from whose possession the
apparatus or implements are taken 80 . (1956 Code, Sec. 23.13)



(H)   Licensing:  Gambling of any type may be allowed within the City of
Flora, Illinois so long as the same is legal within the State of Illinois and
as long as the operator of said gambling or games of chance or any machinery
associated therewith has obtained any and all necessary licenses or permits
as issued by the State of Illinois.  (Amd. Ord. 12-2491, 5-7-2012)



6-3-20: LEWDNESS:



No person shall be guilty of open lewdness or other act of indecency tending
to debauch public morals, or shall keep a common, ill governed, disorderly
house, to the encouragement of idleness, drunkenness, fornication or other
misbehavior 81 . (1956 Code, Sec. 23.15)



6-3-21: LOITERING:



(A)   Definitions: As used in this section:



LOITERING: Remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include the
concepts of spending time idly, loafing or walking about aimlessly, and shall
also include the colloquial expression "hanging around".



PARENT OR GUARDIAN: Shall mean and include any adult person having care or
custody of a minor, whether by reason of blood relationship, the order of any
court or otherwise.



PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public has access and shall include any
street, highway, road, alley or sidewalk. It shall also include the front or
the neighborhood of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern or other place of
business, and public grounds, areas, parks, as well as parking lots or other
vacant private property not owned by or under the control of the person
charged with violating this section, or in the case of a minor, not owned or
under the control of his parent or guardian.



(B)   Certain Types Of Loitering Prohibited: No person shall loiter in a
public place in such manner as to:



1. Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace.



2. Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the comfort
and repose of any person.



3. Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles.



4. Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in any "public
place" as defined in subsection (A) of this section. This subsection (B)4
shall include the making of unsolicited remarks of an offensive, disgusting
or insulting nature or which are calculated to annoy or disturb the person
to, or in whose hearing, they are made.



(C)   Discretion Of Police Officer: Whenever any police officer shall, in
the exercise of reasonable judgment, decide that the presence of any person
in any public place is causing or is likely to cause any of the conditions
enumerated in subsection (B) of this section, he may, if he deems it
necessary for the preservation of the public peace and safety, order that
person to leave that place. Any person who shall refuse to leave after being
ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.



(D)   Loitering By Minors: No parent or guardian of a minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years shall knowingly permit that minor to loiter in
violation of this section.



(E)   Notice Of Violation: Whenever any minor under the age of eighteen
(18) years is charged with a violation of this section, his parent or
guardian shall be notified of this fact by the chief of police or any other
person designated by him to give such notice.



(F)   Presumption: If at any time within thirty (30) days following the
giving of notice as provided in subsection (E) of this section, the minor to
whom such notice relates again violates this section, it shall be presumed in
the absence of evidence to the contrary that the minor did so with the
knowledge and permission of his parent or guardian 82 . (Ord. 72-126,
5-15-1972)



6-3-22: NOISE:



(A)   No person shall use or operate any noisemaking device, broadcasting
machine, radio or other instrumentality, with the intent to attract the
attention of persons upon the streets or sidewalks of the city, or shall
suffer or permit the use or operation upon any premises owned, occupied or
controlled by him, of any such instrumentality.



(B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any sound truck or
automobile equipped with, or use any broadcasting device, designed, by sound
effects, to attract the attention of the persons upon the streets or
sidewalks in the city.



(C)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the use of
amplifying devices at regularly scheduled athletic contests held under the
auspices of any school in the city, or amplifying devices used to broadcast
political or religious addresses or other addresses of general public
interest made within a public meeting place which will not accommodate all
persons desiring to hear the address 83 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.30)



6-3-23: OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE:



No person shall use any obscene or offensive language upon any public street,
or in any public place, or within the hearing of persons upon adjoining
premises 84 . (1956 Code, Sec. 23.01)



6-3-24: RADIO INTERFERENCE:



(A)   No person shall use, maintain or operate any electrical device,
apparatus, device, machinery or equipment in the city, which unnecessarily
causes interference with radio reception, when such interference can be
eliminated by means of repairs, adjustments in the installation of corrective
appliances or other alterations.



(B)   No person shall use or operate any electrical device, appliance,
machinery or equipment in the city, if such use, maintenance or operation
results in interference with radio reception, which cannot be corrected by
repairs, adjustments, the installation of corrective appliances or
alterations. This section does not prohibit the use or operation of any such
appliance or equipment when necessary for the protection of life or property,
for the care or treatment of the sick or of injured persons, or for the
operation of a public utility, as that term is defined in the act
establishing the commerce commission of the state of Illinois.



(C)   Upon learning of the existence, operation or use of any appliance,
device, machinery or equipment in violation of this section, the chief of
police shall serve written notice on the person using or maintaining such
device, appliance or equipment, informing him of the violation. Such person
shall remedy the conditions causing the interference within five (5) days
after the receipt of the notice.



(D)   The chief of police may make such tests and inspections as may be
necessary to enforce this section 85 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.31)



6-3-25: RESISTING ARREST:



No person shall resist the chief of police or any policeman or conservator of
the peace, in making any arrest lawfully attempted to be made, or shall
prevent or attempt by force, menace, threats or in any manner whatever,
hinder or prevent any arrest, or prevent any officer of the city from
executing any provisions of this code or order of the city council. When any
resistance is made to any officer, he may call upon one or more able bodied
male persons over the age of eighteen (18) years, and it shall be their duty
to assist the officer in making arrest 86 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.07)



6-3-26: RIOTING:



No person with another or others shall do any unlawful act with force or
violence against the person or property of another, with or without
connivance, or quarrel 87 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.06)



6-3-27: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVE LIQUIDS:



(A)   No person shall keep or store in excess of five (5) gallons of crude
petroleum, benzine, benzol, gasoline, naphtha or any compounds of the same,
for personal or private use.



(B)   No person shall keep or store crude petroleum, benzine, benzol,
gasoline, naphtha or any compounds of the same, for personal or private use,
in any basement, cellar or pit, or in any container, except a closed metal
container 88 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.13)



6-3-28: STREET LAMPS, INTERFERENCE:



No person shall interfere with or obstruct the light of any street lamp of
the city 89 . (1956 Code, Sec. 22.22)



6-3-29: TRESPASSING:



(A)   Trespass On Property: No person shall enter the enclosure of any
person within the city without permission of the owner or occupant thereof,
and pick, destroy or carry away any portion of the fruit of any tree, vine or
bush. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.26)



(B)   Trespass In Business House: No person shall intrude himself into any
business house, billiard hall or other place of amusement, or any liquor
store, against the consent of the owner, proprietor or person in charge
thereof, or shall fail to leave any such place when so requested by the
proprietor or person in charge. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.27)



(C)   Trespass On Railroad Car:



1. No person shall, without permission or consent of the conductor of the
train, or some agent of the railroad company, stand upon the steps or
platform of any railway car or engine stopping at any railway depot in the
city; or shall get on and off any railway car or engine or the steps or
platform thereof while it is passing through the city. This subsection shall
not apply to any railroad passengers or employees, or to persons getting on a
car for a proper purpose.



2. No person shall, without right, intrude himself into any railway depot or
car, and refuse to leave on request of the person in charge of such depot,
room or car; or not having business with such company shall obtrude himself
in the way of the transaction of any business of, or with, any railway
company, on any platform of the company. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.28)



(D)   Trespass By Peddlers: No solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant
merchant or transient vendor shall go in or upon a private residence in the
city for the purpose of selling or soliciting orders for the sale of goods,
wares, merchandise, services or subscriptions without having been requested
or invited so to do by the owner or occupant of the private residence 90 .
(1956 Code, Sec. 22.29)



6-3-30: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:



No person shall with another or others assemble together for the purpose of
disturbing the peace or committing any unlawful act. Such persons shall
disperse when ordered to do so by any conservator of the peace 91 . (1956
Code, Sec. 22.03)



6-3-31: VAGRANCY:



No person able to work and maintain himself in an honest and respectable
calling, and not having visible means of support shall live idly, without
employment, or shall go about begging or frequenting saloons or shall
otherwise lead a profligate course of life, or shall exhibit any gaming
implement for the purpose of gaming therewith, or shall pursue gaming, or
have in his possession any implement used in counterfeiting or the commission
of burglary, or for picking locks or pockets or any puzzle or other device
used by cheats and swindlers, without being able to give a good account of
his possession of the same, or shall trespass upon any private property in
the nighttime, or habitually sleep in sheds, stables, outhouses or in open
air, without being able to give a good account of himself 92 . (1956 Code,
Sec. 23.06)



6-3-32: WEAPONS:



(A)   Deadly Weapons: No person shall have in his possession or sell,
give, hire or barter to any person within the city, any slug-shot or metallic
knuckles, or other similar deadly weapons. (1956 Code, Sec. 22.09)



(B)   Concealed Weapons: No person shall carry a concealed weapon on or
about his person, or a razor as a weapon, or shall in a threatening or
boisterous manner display or flourish any deadly weapon 93 . (1956 Code, Sec.
22.10)



6-3-33: POSTING OF ADVERTISEMENT:



It shall be unlawful to tack or place any sign, bill, poster or advertisement
of any nature on any pole, tree or other plant or structure in any street,
alley or other public place.



In case any sign, bill, poster or advertisement shall be tacked or placed on
any pole, tree or other plant or structure in any street, alley or other
public place in violation of the terms of this chapter, the chief of police
or any other police officer upon direction of the mayor shall remove such
sign, bill, poster or advertisement.



Penalties for violation of this chapter shall be as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 78-386, 3-6-1978)



6-3-34: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:



It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, consume, transport, carry or
possess any alcoholic beverage, except in the original package, and with the
seal unbroken on any public street, sidewalk, alley, right of way, park,
public parking lot or semipublic parking lot. The term "semi-public parking
lot" shall include any area wherein motor vehicles are parked by the public
in conjunction with any business, enterprise, commercial establishment,
office building or apartment building.



Any person violating this section or any provision herein is guilty of a
petty offense and any person convicted of said offense shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord.
79-441, 8-6-1979)



6-3-35: CURFEW 1 :



(A)   It is unlawful for a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to
be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
at the following times:



1. Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M., Saturday;



2. Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M., Sunday;



3. Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.



(B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:



1. Engaged in a business or corporation which the laws of Illinois authorize
a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform.



2. Accompanied by the child's parent, legal guardian, custodian, sibling,
stepbrother or stepsister at least eighteen (18) years of age;



3. Accompanied by an adult at least eighteen (18) years of age approved by
the child's parent, guardian or custodian;



4. Participating in, going to, or returning from:



(a) Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less than
seventeen (17) years of age to perform;



(b) A school recreational activity;



(c) A religious event;



(d) An emergency involving the protection of a person or property from an
imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;



(e) An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights protected under
the first amendment to the United States constitution or article 1, sections
3, 4 and 5 of the constitution of the state of Illinois, or both;



(f) An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that provides
recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision of one
or more adults.



A citation for violation of subsection (A) of this section may be issued by a
police officer only if he reasonably believes that a violation has occurred
and none of the defenses enumerated in this subsection apply.



(C)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate subsection (A)
of this section.



(D)   A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 04-1841, 5-3-2004, eff. 6-3-2004)



6-3-36: TOBACCO USE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:



The city of Flora, Illinois, by and through its city council, may prohibit
the use of tobacco whether smokeless or smoke products on properties owned or
leased by the city of Flora, Illinois. Any area so designated by the city
council of the city of Flora, Illinois, shall be posted with signage to
indicate the no tobacco use area. Any violation of this section may include a
fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 04-1875,
8-16-2004, eff. 9-17-2004)



 


Notes

1 
720 ILCS 5/12-1.

2 
720 ILCS 5/31-7.

3 
720 ILCS 5/5-1.

4 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-4.

5 
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4.

6 
765 ILCS 130/21.

68 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1; 720 ILCS 5/28.1 et seq.

69 
720 ILCS 5/16-5.

70 
720 ILCS 5/21-1.

71 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3; 720 ILCS 5/26-1.

72 
720 ILCS 5/26-1.

73 
720 ILCS 5/26-1.

74 
65 ILCS 5/11-40-1.

75 
720 ILCS 5/26-1.

76 
815 ILCS 505/1 et seq.

77 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3.

78 
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq., 5/82-1, 5/161-1.

79 
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4; 425 ILCS 30/1 et seq.

80 
720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.

81 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-1; 720 ILCS 5/11-9, 5/11-20.

82 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2; 720 ILCS 5/26-1.

83 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2; 720 ILCS 5/26-1.

84 
720 ILCS 5/11-9, 5/11-20.

85 
720 ILCS 5/26-1.

86 
720 ILCS 5/7-7.

87 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2.

88 
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4; 225 ILCS 210/3001.

89 
720 ILCS 5/21-1.

90 
720 ILCS 5/21-3.

91 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2.

92 
65 ILCS 5/11-5-4.

93 
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.

1 
See also chapter 7 of this title.



CHAPTER 4
DOGS AND ANIMALS



6-4-1: HARBORING:



It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or harbor any dog which
habitually barks, howls, yelps or any cat which habitually cries or howls to
the discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or in such a manner
as to materially disturb or annoy any individual in the neighborhood. Such
dogs and cats are hereby declared to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 18-2971,
3-19-2018)



6-4-2: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:



It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog or cat to run at large
within the City of Flora at anytime. Furthermore it shall be unlawful for any
person to permit a dog to be on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place without being secured on a leash. The term "to run at large" shall
include but not be limited to dogs and cats which are any street, alley,
sidewalk or public place without a dog being securely placed on a leash or a
cat in the presence of its owner or other person. (Ord. 18-2971, 3-19-2018)



6-4-3: THREATENING, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL:



Any dog that is not located on the property of the owner or the custodian of
the dog and said dog is unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by its owner or
other custodian or is not within a secure enclosure or on a leash that
behaves in a manner that a reasonable person believes poses a serious and
unjustified imminent threat of serious personal injury or death to a person
or companion animal shall be deemed threatening. Subsequent violations of
this ordinance shall be deemed a dangerous dog incident.



The City of Flora adopts as part of this ordinance the Animal Control Act of
the State of Illinois (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) and any amendments thereto for
dangerous and vicious animals. (Ord. 18-2971, 3-19-2018)



6-4-4: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:



It shall be unlawful to permit any horse, mule, cow, swine, sheep, goat,
goose, poultry or any other animal to run at large in the City and
furthermore it shall be unlawful to permit any horse or mule to stand upon,
walk or be ridden upon any sidewalk within the City of Flora. (Ord. 18-2971,
3-19-2018)



6-4-5: KEEPING OF ANIMALS:



No person shall keep any animal which is deemed to be a farm animal within
the City limits of the City of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 18-2971, 3-19-2018)



6-4-6: PENALTIES:



Unless otherwise provided hereinabove or specifically enumerated in the
Animal Control Act as adopted by the City of Flora, the penalty for any
violation of this chapter shall be a fine of not less than fifty Dollars
($50.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation
plus court costs. (Ord. 18-2971, 3-19-2018)



6-4-7: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-8: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-9: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-10: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-11: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-12: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-13: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-14: KEEPING OF ANIMALS:



No person shall keep any farm animal within the city limits except, a person
may keep and maintain chickens for egg production, with the exclusion of
roosters and crowing hens, limited to a maximum of six (6) chickens per
household on any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him or her within
the city of Flora subject to the following:



(a)   Number of chickens: The number of chickens shall not exceed six (6);



(b)   Coops: The fowls are kept in an improved enclosure, no part of which
is:



1.   For any existing chicken coop in the city of Flora as of the date of
passage of this ordinance, within seventy-five feet (75') of any occupied
residence, including that of the owner, as measured from the nearest corner
of the occupied residence to the nearest corner of the enclosure and after
date of passage of this ordinance any chicken coop shall not be within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of any occupied residence including that of the
owner, as measured from the nearest corner of the occupied residence to the
nearest corner of the enclosure; or



2.   All chicken coops must have a set back of fifteen feet (15') from the
side or back property line unless the back property line abuts a city
alleyway which said set back shall be at least five feet (5').



All coops are required to have at least four (4) square feet of coop floor
area per chicken and must be well maintained. In no case shall the floor area
of the chicken coop exceed forty (40) square feet and the chicken coop shall
not exceed eight feet (8') in height. Enclosures must have at least eight (8)
square feet of outdoor run space per chicken. The enclosure must be
constructed of wind slats or wire fencing and shall be constructed to a
minimum height of five feet (5'). All enclosures must be adequate to maintain
the chickens within the enclosed space.



The chickens must be kept in the coop or fenced enclosure at all times.



Any opening of windows and doors in said chicken coop must be covered by wire
mesh of one-half (1/2) inch of smaller opening to discourage predators. The
chicken coops shall be constructed in a manner to avoid weathering.



Coops and enclosures must be kept in a clean, dry, odor free and sanitary
manner at all times.



No person or owner shall keep, or allow to be kept in a foul, offensive,
nauseous or filthy condition, any chicken coop or fence enclosure containing
chickens.



Odors from chickens, manure, or related substances shall not be detectable
from property lines.



The chicken owner must provide for the storage and disposal of chicken waste.



All chickens are raised for egg consumption only and shall not be slaughtered
within the city limits.



Deceased chickens shall be properly disposed of.



All chicken feed shall be stored in an enclosed container resistant to
rodents and other animals.



All chicken coops shall provide adequate ventilation, shade, and be resistant
to predators, wild birds and rodents.



All chicken coops shall be located to the rear of the residential structure
and may be allowed in the back yard but not the side or front yards.



All non-conforming chickens must be removed or made conforming to the
requirements of this ordinance on or before July 1, 2016.



(c)   License: On or before the 1st day of May of each year said person
keeping said chickens shall:



1.   Register with the city clerk, on forms prepared and supplied by the
city clerk; and



2.   File a certificate of inspection with the city clerk demonstrating
the city building and zoning official has completed an inspection of the
premises within two (2) months prior to the date of filing of said
registration form setting forth that said structures meet with the applicable
city codes.



All chicken coops must be maintained in accordance with this chapter and
shall be licensed by the city of Flora. The city clerk may issue license to
the owner of the chicken coop upon meeting all of the conditions of this
section.



The application for a chicken coop license shall state the name and address
of the owner, proposed location of the chicken coop, and all other applicable
information requested by the Building Official. A license will only be issued
under the chicken coop and enclosure have been inspected and have been
determined to meet all requirements of this title. The licensing of any
chicken coop shall be charged at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the
initial license and twenty- five dollars ($25.00) for each renewal every year
thereafter. All license fees are non-refundable.



All licenses are non-transferable. In the event any chicken coop is not used
as a chicken coop or remains vacant for more than a period of ninety (90)
days, said license shall be revoked and the chicken coop shall be removed
from said property.



Only one (1) chicken coop license shall be issued per property. Any home site
consisting of multiple lots shall be considered one (1) property.



There shall be no more than six (6) licenses issued by the city of Flora at
any time.



Any certificate or license issued under this ordinance may be revoked at any
time for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of this ordinance
including making any false statements on any application, non-compliance with
any rules and regulations thereof or disregard of any city ordinances, state
or federal laws regarding the use of said chicken coop.



All licenses issued pursuant to this ordinance shall be valid for a term not
to exceed one (1) year, commencing on May 1 and ending on April 30 of the
following year.



(d)   Penalties: Unless otherwise provided for hereinabove, the penalties
for any violation of the above section shall be a fine not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation plus court costs. A violation does not remedy it as a continuing
violation and may be designated as a separate violation each and every day
that it remains uncured. (Ord. 97-1357, 4-21-1997; amd. Ord. 16-2750,
4-4-2016)



6-4-15: LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.



6-4-16: PENALTIES:



Unless otherwise provided hereinabove, the penalties for any violation of the
above sections shall be a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation plus court costs.
(Ord. 97-1357, 4-21-1997)



CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES



6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:



The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:



INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least ten (10) days, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power or said vehicle is a vehicle that is used for racing or
demolition derby exhibition or said vehicle is incapable of being driven upon
the public highways in a legal fashion and manner pursuant to the Illinois
vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes. "Inoperable motor vehicle" does
not include any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use;
or a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operating a lawful
place and a manner when necessary to the operation of said enterprise.



PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.



PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not "public property" as defined in this section.



PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes
of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or
facility.



UNREGISTERED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which has invalid or otherwise improper
registration as required pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-400
et seq., as now or hereafter amended.



VEHICLE: Any device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, propelled by a power other
than human power designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels,
treads, runners, or slides, and shall include, without limitation,
automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies, wagons, and
recreational vehicles. (Ord. 88-920, 6-6-1988; amd. Ord. 94-1220, 9-6-1994)



6-5-2: LEAVING OF UNREGISTERED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:



No person shall leave or park any vehicle having invalid or otherwise
improper registration as required pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/3-400 et seq., as now or hereafter amended, on any public property in the
city. (Ord. 88-920, 6-6-1988)



6-5-3: ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL:



The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on
any public property in this city is unlawful and subject to penalties as set
forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq. The abandonment of a
motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in
this city is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such
abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so
abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the
order of the chief of police after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more
has expired. (Ord. 88-920, 6-6-1988)



6-5-4: INOPERABLE VEHICLES DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE:



Inoperable motor vehicles, as defined herein, whether on public or private
property, are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 88-920, 6-6-1988)



6-5-5: PARKING OR STORAGE OF INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES:



No person shall leave or park or allow to be left or parked any "inoperable
motor vehicle", as defined in this chapter, on public or private property
within the city. (Ord. 88-920, 6-6-1988)



6-5-6: IMPOUNDING, RECLAMATION AND DISPOSITION:



The city police department having jurisdiction is hereby authorized to remove
or have removed any unregistered or abandoned vehicles as defined in this
chapter, left or found on any public property within the city; or any
inoperable vehicles as defined in this chapter, left or found at any place
within the city. The city police department will follow and perform the
procedures as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq., as
now and hereafter amended, with respect to such vehicle as if such vehicle
were abandoned within the meaning of such 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/4-201 et seq., the provisions of which shall apply to impounded inoperable
motor vehicles as if such vehicles were abandoned within the meaning of such
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq., as now and hereafter amended.
(Ord. 88-920, 6-6-1988)



CHAPTER 6
FLAG DESECRATION OR THEFT



6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:



The words "flag", "standard", "color" or "ensign", as used in this chapter
shall include any flag, standard, color or ensign or any picture or
representation either thereof, made of any substance or represented on any
substance and of any size evidently purporting to be either the flag of the
United States of America or the state of Illinois. (Ord. 01-1689, 10-1-2001)



6-6-2: DESECRATION, MUTILATION, IMPROPER USE OR THEFT:



No person shall exhibit, display, place or cause to be placed any word,
figure, mark, picture, design, drawing or any advertisement of any nature,
upon any flag, standard, color or ensign of the United States of America or
the state of Illinois or expose or cause to be exposed to public view any
such flag, standard, color or ensign, upon which has been printed, painted or
otherwise placed, or to which has been attached, pinned or fixed or annexed
any word, figure, mark, picture, design or drawing or any advertisement of
any nature, or exposes to public view, manufacture, sell, expose for sale,
give away or has in possession for sale or to give away or for use for any
purpose, any article or substance, being an article of merchandise, or a
receptacle of merchandise or article or thing for carrying or transporting
merchandise upon which has been printed, painted, attached or otherwise
placed or representation of any such flag, standard, color or ensign to
advertise, call attention to, decorate, mark or distinguish the article or
substance on which so placed.



No person shall obtain or exert unauthorized control over a flag, standard,
color or ensign of the United States of America or state of Illinois without
the consent of the owner. No person shall obtain control over any stolen
flag, standard, color or ensign of the United States of America or state of
Illinois knowing said property to be stolen or under such circumstances as
would reasonably induce him to believe that the property was stolen. (Ord.
01-1689, 10-1-2001)



6-6-3: PENALTY:



Any person so committing any of the offenses set forth hereinabove shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) through
the city administrative adjudication court. (Ord. 01-1689, 10-1-2001)



CHAPTER 7
TRUANCY AND CURFEW 1



6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:



As used in this chapter unless the context requires otherwise the following
words or phrases shall mean:



CITY CURFEW HOURS: The period of time between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on
any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on the following day; and, from one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01)
A.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any Saturday or Sunday.



COURT: The fourth judicial circuit, Clay County, Illinois.



CUSTODIAN: a) A person who under court order is the custodian of the person
of a minor; or b) a public or private agency with which the court has placed
a minor; or c) a person acting in the role of a parent by reason of a private
agreement, arrangement, custom, or habit.



EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to,
fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, medical emergency or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.



ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business to which the public is
invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or
entertainment.



GUARDIAN: a) Parent; or b) a person who under court order is the guardian of
the person of the minor; or c) a public or private agency with which the
court has placed the minor.



MINOR: A person under the age of seventeen (17) years.



PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person.



PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
public ways, sidewalks, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment
houses, office buildings, transport facilities and shops.



RESPONSIBLE ADULT: A person at least eighteen (18) years of age, authorized
by a parent, guardian or custodian to have the care and custody of a minor.



SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.



TRUANCY CURFEW HOURS: The period of the day when the school the minor would
normally attend is in session, on days when the school the minor would
normally attend is in session.



TRUANCY REVIEW BOARD: Any agency or entity established by any school district
or any federal, state or local governmental entity or any counseling or
social agency or any combination thereof recognized by the city and/or the
court as an agency which provides service to improve education performance
and/or attendance.



TRUANT OFFICER: Any officer, appointee, employee or other agent of any school
district or any federal, state or local governmental entity or any agency
thereof performing the duties of a truant officer under the Illinois
compulsory attendance statute, chapter 105, act 5, section 26-1 et seq. of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 04-1873, 8-2-2004)



6-7-2: CURFEW RESTRICTIONS:



(A)   It is unlawful for any minor to be present in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city of Flora, Illinois, during
city curfew hours.



(B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control to allow, the minor to be
present in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within
the city of Flora, Illinois, during city curfew hours.



(C)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (A) or (B) of this
section or section 6-7-4 of this chapter that the minor was:



1. Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian or responsible adult;



2. On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent, guardian or
responsible adult, without any detour or stop;



3. In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel with the consent or
authorization of a parent, guardian or custodian;



4. Engaged in, going to or returning home from an employment activity without
any detour or stop;



5. Involved in an emergency;



6. On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence;



7. Engaged in, going to or returning home from an official school, religious
or other recreational activity supervised by adults, sponsored by a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;



8. Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution; or



9. Emancipated pursuant to law. (Ord. 04-1873, 8-2-2004)



6-7-3: TRUANCY RESTRICTIONS:



(A)   It is unlawful for any minor who is subject to compulsory education
or to compulsory continuing education by statute or court order to be present
in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city
of Flora, Illinois, during truancy curfew hours.



(B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control to allow, the minor to be
present in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within
the city of Flora, Illinois, during truancy curfew hours.



(C)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (A) or (B) of this
section or section 6-7-4 of this chapter that the minor was:



1. Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or responsible adult if engaged in an
activity which would constitute an excused absence from the school which the
minor would normally attend;



2. Involved in an emergency;



3. Going to or returning from a medical appointment without any detour or
stop;



4. Engaged in, going to or returning home from an employment activity
pursuant to a cooperative school vocation program without any detour or stop;



5. In possession of valid proof that the minor is a student who has
permission to leave the school campus;



6. A bona fide participant in an alternative education or home schooling
program;



7. Engaged in or subject to an authorized or excused absence from the school
which the minor attends, including, but not limited to, lunch periods. (Ord.
04-1873, 8-2-2004)



6-7-4: ESTABLISHMENT RESTRICTION:



It is unlawful for any owner, operator or any employee of an establishment to
allow a minor to be present or to remain upon the premises of the
establishment in violation of section 6-7-2 or 6-7-3 of this chapter during
curfew or truancy hours.



It is a defense to prosecution, under this paragraph if the owner, operator
or employee of the establishment immediately upon discovery of a minor
reasonably believed to be in violation of section 6-7-2 or 6-7-3 of this
chapter notified a law enforcement agency that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew or truancy hours and refused to
leave the establishment after being advised to do so by the owner, operator
or employee. (Ord. 04-1873, 8-2-2004)



6-7-5: ENFORCEMENT RESTRICTIONS:



(A)   Every member of the city of Flora police department while on duty is
hereby authorized as follows:



1. For the first offense of any minor violating the provisions of this
chapter, to issue to the minor a citation, in writing, in the same form as
described in subsection (C) of this section.



2. For a second offense, the law enforcement officer is authorized to
temporarily detain any minor violating the provisions of this chapter
(regardless of whether a citation is immediately issued) until the parent,
custodian or guardian of the minor shall take him or her into custody, but
such officer shall immediately upon taking custody of the minor reasonably
attempt to communicate with the parent, custodian or guardian of the minor
unless subsection (E) of this section is applicable. A parent, custodian or
guardian must take custody of the minor within one hour of the time of notice
or be subject to a charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per hour as
hereinafter provided.



(B)   Whenever a police officer or truant officer witnesses or has
knowledge based on reasonable grounds of a violation of this chapter by any
person, such person may be issued a citation. A citation or complaint may be
made to a police officer or truant officer by any person.



(C)   A citation issued hereunder shall be in writing and shall:



1. State the name of the person being cited and the person's address if known;



2. Set forth the specific section of this chapter that was violated, the date
of the violation and a brief description of the violation;



3. Be signed by the issuing police officer, truant officer or complaining
party.



In each instance where a citation is issued to a minor for violation of this
chapter, a minor's parent, custodian or guardian shall be provided a copy of
the citation notifying the parent, custodian or guardian of the charge made
against the minor.



(D)   A minor cited for a violation under this chapter must attend a court
hearing or truancy review board hearing on the citation and must be
accompanied at the hearing by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the legal care and custody of the minor. If any such
person fails to attend any court hearing with the minor, and unless the
interest of justice would otherwise be served, the court may continue the
hearing and shall issue a notice or a rule to show cause to the person
directing that said person to appear at the continued hearing with the minor.
Failure of the person to thereafter appear shall subject said person to
sanctions for contempt of court as determined by the court.



(E)   Every member of the city of Flora police department while on duty is
hereby authorized to temporarily detain any minor violating the provisions of
section 6-7-3 of this chapter, regardless of whether a citation is issued,
and to deliver and surrender the minor to the lawful authorities of the
school that the minor would normally attend. (Ord. 04-1873, 8-2-2004)



6-7-6: PENALTY:



(A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall upon
conviction thereof be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00); and a separate offense shall be deemed to have
been committed upon each day on which such violation occurs or continues.



(B)   In lieu of or in addition to a fine, a minor may be ordered to
attend counseling or to perform ten (10) hours of court approved community
service during times other than the minor's hours of school attendance and/or
the minor's parents, guardian, custodian or other adult person having legal
care or custody of the minor may be ordered to attend a parenting class or
series of parenting classes or other counseling approved by the court or
recommended by the truancy review board or to attend any program directly
related to improving school attendance and/or performance.



(C)   In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to subsection (A) or (B)
of this section, the minor's parents, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having legal care or custody of the minor may be ordered to pay all
amounts imposed as civil liability under section 6-7-7 of this chapter. (Ord.
04-1873, 8-2-2004)



6-7-7: CIVIL LIABILITY:



If a minor is detained for a period of time in excess of one hour which
requires the supervision of the minor by personnel of the city of Flora
police department, the parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person
having the legal care or custody of the minor shall be jointly and severally
liable for the costs therefor. The parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having the legal care or custody of a minor who has committed any
offense of this chapter shall be assessed and billed for the costs. The costs
shall be recoverable in any action enforcing any provision of this chapter or
in a separate civil action. In addition, the failure to pay the costs shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and subject the violator to the
penalties described in section 6-7-6 of this chapter. In the event any action
is filed, the liable party shall be responsible for all court costs and any
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the county in collecting. (Ord. 04-1873,
8-2-2004)



 


Notes

1 
See also section 6-3-35 of this title.



CHAPTER 8
OFFENSES INVOLVING DRUGS



SECTION:



6-8-1:   Definitions



6-8-2:   Possession Of Cannabis Prohibited



6-8-3:   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited



6-8-4:   Sale Or Delivery of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited



6-8-5:   Nitrous Oxide



6-8-6:   MDPV Prohibited



6-8-7:   Prohibition of Sale, Possession, Delivery or Production of
Synthetic Cannabis



6-8-1:   DEFINITIONS: 



The following terms shall have the following meanings unless the context
clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended.



   CANNABIS:   Includes marijuana, hashish or other substances which
are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such
plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin, including
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other synthetically produced ingredients,
whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by
means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical
synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber
produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or
cake, or the sterilized seeds of such plant. Cannabis shall also include any
substance defined as cannabis in 720 ILCS 550/3 et seq. and as hereafter
amended.



   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE:   Any substance as defined in 720 ILCS 570.201
et seq.



   DELIVER OR DELIVERY:   Actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there
is an agency relationship.



   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:   All equipment, products, and material of any
kind which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in
violation of this title, the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 500/et seq., or
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/et seq. It includes, but
is not limited to:



         1.   It is intended to be used unlawfully in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
cannabis or a controlled substance;



         2.   Isomerization devices intended to be used
unlawfully in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is
cannabis or a controlled substance;



         3.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in
a private home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness,
or purity of cannabis or controlled substances;



         4.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used
unlawfully for cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;



         5.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish oil
into the human body including, where applicable, the following items:



                  (a)   Water pipes;



                  (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;



                  (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;



                  (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and
cocaine vials;



                  (e)   Carburetor pipes;



                  (f)   Electric pipes;



                  (g)   Air driven pipes;



                  (h)   Chillums;



                  (i)   Bongs;



                  (j)   Ice pipes or chillers;



         6.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described
by the seller, is for use in violation of this act.



   KNOWLEDGE:   Knows, acts knowingly or with knowledge:



         1.   The nature or attendant circumstances of his/her
conduct, described by the section defining the offense, when he/she is
consciously aware that his/her conduct is of such nature or that such
circumstances exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the
substantial probability that such facts exists.



         2.   The result of his/her conduct, described by the
section defining the offense, when he/she is consciously aware that such
result is likely to be caused by his/her conduct.



         3.   Knowledge may be inferred from the surrounding
circumstances.



   MANUFACTURE:   The production, preparation, propagation,
compounding, conversion or processing of cannabis, either directly or
indirectly, by extraction from substances of natural origin, or independently
by means of chemical synthesis, and includes any packaging or repackaging of
cannabis or labeling of its container, except that this term does not include
the preparation, compounding, packaging or labeling of cannabis as an
incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale.



   NITROUS OXIDE (N20):   A colorless flammable gas used as an
anesthetic and in aerosols.



   NITROUS OXIDE CARTRIDGE:    Any cartridge containing less than
twenty (20) ounces of compressed nitrous oxide (N20).



   PERSON:    Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership or association, or any other entity.



   POSSESSION:   Possession may be either actual or constructive.



         1.   Actual possession means exercising physical
dominion.



         2.   Constructive possession may be inferred if the
defendant has intent and capacity to maintain control and dominion over the
cannabis or drug paraphernalia.



   PRODUCE OR PRODUCTION:   Planting, cultivating, tending or
harvesting.



(Ord. 09-2240, 4-20-2009)



6-8-2:   POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PROHIBITED:



   (A)   Violation: No person shall possess any amount of cannabis or
any substance containing cannabis.



   (B)   Penalty: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a
court of the city of Flora or the state of Illinois shall be as follows:



      (i)   For possession of cannabis or any substance containing
cannabis of not more than ten (10) grams shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00);



      (ii)   Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a
court of the city of Flora or state of Illinois for possession of cannabis of
more than ten (10) grams shall be fined a minimum fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).



   (C)   Administrative Fee: In addition, any person who violates any
provision of this section and is convicted, pleads guilty, receives court
supervision or probation by a court of law shall be ordered to pay an
administrative fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to be paid to the law
enforcement agency for testing of the substance(s) collected.



   (D)   Forfeiture: Any items which may be seized or forfeited
pursuant to 720 ILCS 550/12 may be forfeited in the same manner as described
therein for a violation of this section.



   (E)   Exception: Any person who manufactures, distributes,
dispenses, or is in possession of any controlled substance for research
purposes pursuant to 720 ILCS 550/11, as hereafter amended, shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section. 



(Ord. 09-2240, 4-20-2009; amd. Ord. 17-2800, 2-6-2017)



6-8-3:   POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED:



   (A)   Violation: No person shall knowingly possess any item of drug
paraphernalia with the intent to use it for the purpose of unlawfully
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled
substance into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance for that use within the corporate limits of the city of Flora. In
determining intent for purposes of this section, the trier of fact may take
into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled substances to
drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on
the drug paraphernalia.



   (B)   Penalty:  Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by
a court of the city of Flora or state of Illinois shall be punished by a
minimum fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).



   (C)   Forfeiture: "Drug paraphernalia" as defined herein, seized by
police officers pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice to appear for a
violation of this section, shall be forfeited to the city upon a plea of
guilty, a finding of guilt and/or a disposition of court supervision or
probation by a court of law or upon the individual utilizing any
administrative remedy allowed by the city without further order of the court.
Any other items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant to 720 ILCS 600/5,
may be forfeited in the same manner as described therein for a violation of
this section.



   (D)   Exemptions: This section does not apply to:



      1.   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale.



      2.   Items historically and customarily used in connection
with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance
unless such item has the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance.
Items exempt under this subsection include, but are not limited to, garden
hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling papers.



      3.   Items listed in the definition of "drug paraphernalia" in
section 6-8-1 of this chapter if said items are used solely for decorative
purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable or
incapable of being used for any illicit purposes prohibited by this chapter.



      4.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic
syringes or needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act, 720 ILCS
635/0.01 et seq.  (Ord. 09-2240, 4-20-2009)



6-8-4:   SALE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED:



   (A)   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for
sale, offer for sale, or deliver any commercial consideration any item of
drug paraphernalia within the corporate limits of the city of Flora, Illinois.



   (B)   Penalty: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a
court of the city of Flora or state of Illinois shall be punished by a
minimum fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each item of drug
paraphernalia. In addition thereto, any individual or entity who is found
guilty of the sales or delivery of drug paraphernalia and the same occurred
at a business establishment owned by said individual or entity while employed
there, said business establishment is subject to loss of any operating
license as issued by the city of Flora or state of Illinois in addition to
the fines described hereinabove.



   (C)   Forfeiture: "Drug paraphernalia" as defined herein, seized by
police officers pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice to appear for a
violation of this section, shall be forfeited to the city upon a plea of
guilty, a finding of guilt and/or a disposition of court supervision or
probation by a court of law or upon the individual utilizing any
administrative remedy allowed by the city without further order of the court.
Any other items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant to 720 ILCS 600/5,
may be forfeited in the same manner as described therein for a violation of
this section.  (Ord. 09-2240, 4-20-2009)



6-8-5:   NITROUS OXIDE:



   (A)   Unlawful Sale or Distribution Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm, corporation, copartnership or association to possess
any container or cartridge which contains nitrous oxide (N20) for the purpose
of selling, offering for sale, distributing or giving away N20; except that
the foregoing provisions shall not apply to wholesalers, jobbers, and
manufacturers who use nitrous oxide (N20) in the normal course of their
business to manufacture other lawful items.



   (B)   Unlawful Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to inhale,
or otherwise introduce into his respiratory system, nitrous oxide except
under the direct care and supervision of a licensed physician or dentist.



   (C)   Penalty: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a
court of the city of Flora or the state of Illinois shall be punished by a
minimum fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.  (Ord. 09-2240,
4-20-2009)



6-8-6:   MDPV PROHIBITED:



(A)   Purposes: This section of the City Code of the City of Flora,
Illinois is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city by prohibiting the possession,
distribution or delivery of any substance containing MDPV as hereinafter
defined, it being the specific finding of the city council that such
substances have a dangerous affect upon any one using said substances and
have no medicinal or beneficial purposes.



(B)   Definitions:



 

DELIVER:
 

The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer from one person to another of
MDPV, whether or not there is an agency relationship, and includes a sale.



DISTRIBUTE:
 
To deliver other than by administering or dispensing MDPV.


MEPHEDRONE:
 

Also known as the 4-Methylmethcathinone (4-MMC), or 4-Methylephedrone, is a
synthetic stimulant and entactogen drug of the amphetamine and cathinone
classes.




 

METHYLENEDIOXY PYROVALERONE (MDPV):
 

Is a psychedelic psychoactive drug with stimulant properties which acts as a
norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI). It is also sometimes known
as MDPK, Magic, Super Coke and PV.




 



 


MDPV:

 

Includes any material, compound, mixture or preparation containing any
quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the central
nervous system, including their salts, isomers and salts of isomers of 3.4
Methylenedioxyprovalerone, Methylone, Mephedrone, 4-Methoxymethcathinone,
4-Fluormethcathinine, and 3-Fluoromethcathinone;



POSSESS:
 

Means with the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance, either
actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has actual
possession if he has the substance on his person or within easy reach and
convenient control. A person who, although not in actual possession, has the
power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or control over the
substance either directly or through another person or persons is in
constructive possession of it.




 



(C)   Manufacture: The production, preparation, propagation, compounding,
conversion or processing of synthetic cocaine or a substance containing
cocaine, either directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of
natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, and includes
any packaging or repackaging of any synthetic cocaine or a substance
containing cocaine or labeling of its container, except that this term does
not include the preparation, compounding, packaging or labeling of synthetic
cocaine as an incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and
not for sale or delivery for the intended use.



(D)   Possession prohibited: No person shall possess any substance
containing synthetic cocaine or a substance containing cocaine and mephedrone
and methylenedioxyprovalerone (MDPV) are hereby declared and defined as a
controlled substance as the term is used in this section and possession, use
or delivery of either, is hereby declared illegal and a violation of city
ordinance. Furthermore, no individual or entity shall sell, give, deliver or
provide to any other individual said substances.



(E)   Penalties: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by the
court of the city, State of Illinois or other court shall be punished by a
minimum fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.



In addition thereto, any individual possessing, selling, delivering or
manufacturing MDPV or any of the other forms thereof as set forth in this
section and said individual is an owner, manager, employee or agent of any
business entity in the city which requires a business license and said sale,
possession, delivery or manufacture occurs upon, in or through said business
either by a licensee, agent or employee thereof, said business shall be
subject to further fines, suspensions or revocation of any city license
required to operate said business. (Ord. 11-2437, 6-20-2011)



6-8-7:   PROHIBITION OF SALE, POSSESSION, DELIVERY OR PRODUCTION OF
SYNTHETIC CANNABIS:



(A)   Definitions: The following terms shall have the following meanings
unless the context indicates otherwise that a different meaning is intended:



 


DELIVER OR DELIVERY:

 

Actual, constructive or attempted transfer of possession of synthetic
cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an
agency-relationship.



KNOWLEDGE:
 
Knows, acts knowingly or with knowledge.

 


(a)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that such fact exists.


 


(b)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that such result is likely
to be caused by his or her conduct.


 


(c)   Knowledge may be inferred from the surrounding circumstances.




 



 


MANUFACTURE:

 

The production, preparation, propagation, compounding, conversion or
processing of synthetic cannabis, either directly or indirectly, by
extraction from substances of natural origin, or independently by means of
chemical synthesis, and includes any packaging or repackaging of synthetic
cannabis or labeling of its container, except that this term does not include
the preparation, compounding, packaging or labeling of synthetic cannabis as
an incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for
sale.



PERSON:
 
Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or
association, or any other entity.


POSSESSION:
 

Possession may be either actual or constructive.


 


(a)   Actual possession means exercising physical dominion.


 


(b)   Constructive possession may be inferred if the defendant has intent
and capacity to maintain control and dominion over the cannabis or drug
paraphernalia.




PRODUCE OR PRODUCTION:

 
Planting, cultivating, tending or harvesting.


SYNTHETIC CANNABIS:
 

Includes but not limited to the brand names K2 and Spice. It is an herbal and
chemical product which mimics the effects of cannabis including but not
limited to synthetic cannabinoids, cannabicyclohyexanol, JWH-01 8 and HU-210.




 



(B)   Possession of synthetic cannabis prohibited: No person shall possess
any substance containing synthetic cannabis nor shall any person produce or
deliver any substance containing synthetic cannabis.



(C)   Penalties: Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by the
court of the city, State of Illinois or other court shall be punished by a
minimum fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.



1.   Any items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant to this section
or Section 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/12 may be forfeited in the same
manners described therein for violation of this section.



2.   In addition thereto, any individual possessing, selling, delivering
or manufacturing synthetic cannabis or any of the other forms thereof as set
forth in this section and the individual is an owner, manager, employee or
agent of any business entity in the city which requires a business license
and the sale, possession, delivery or manufacture occurs upon, in or through
the business either by a licensee, agent or employee thereof, the business
shall be subject to further fines, suspensions or revocation of any city
license required to operate the business.



(D)   Exception: Any person who manufactures, distributes, dispenses, or
is in possession of any controlled substance or synthetic cannabis for
research purposes pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/11, as
hereafter amended, shall be exempt from the provisions of this section. (Ord.
11-2436, 6-20-2011)



TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION



CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES



7-1-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:



No person shall cause or maintain or suffer the continuance of any nuisance
as defined by the laws of this state or the provisions of this chapter,
within the city. (Ord. 88-921, 6-6-1988)



7-1-2: NUISANCES DEFINED:



The following are nuisances:



(A)   Any act done, or any substance or thing kept, maintained, placed or
found in or upon any public or private place which is injurious or dangerous
to the public health.



(B)   Any pursuit followed or act done to the hurt, injury, annoyance,
inconvenience or damage of the public.



(C)   Any building, bridge or other structure in a condition unsafe,
dangerous, unhealthy, injurious or annoying to the public.



(D)   Any obstruction caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk or
public or private alley to the danger or annoyance or inconvenience of the
public, and any stones, dirt, carcass, offal, filth, slops, vegetable matter
or other article thrown or placed in any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place which may cause injury or inconvenience or annoyance to the
public.



(E)   Any sign projecting farther into a street than two feet (2') or
hanging in such a way as to interfere with the free use of any sidewalk.



(F)   Any house, shed or other building, or any fence standing wholly or
in part on any street or alley or on any public grounds.



(G)   Any slaughterhouse or animals or fowls offensive, annoying or
injurious to the public, or kept without special permission of the city
council.



(H)   Any corral, enclosure or other premises used as a stockyard which is
adjacent to lands or property used for residential purposes, except that a
public stockyard may be located on any railroad right of way.



(I)   The business of buying, selling, keeping or transporting of horses,
cattle, hogs or sheep within any residential area to the prejudice of others,
except that a public stockyard may be located on any railroad right of way.



(J)   Any stable, cattle yard, hog, sheep or cow pen offensive, annoying
or injurious to the public, or any hog pen or enclosure within three hundred
feet (300') of any residence in the city.



(K)   Any animal or vegetable matter, or other substance liable to become
putrid, offensive or unhealthy.



(L)   Any pond or pool of stagnant water and any foul or dirty water or
liquid discharged through any drainpipe or spout or thrown into a street,
alley, thoroughfare, or lot to the injury or annoyance of the public.



(M)   Any cellar, vault, private drain, pool, privy, sewer or sink
nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public health, or any privy,
vault or cesspool erected or constructed after September 30, 1947, on
premises which are adjacent to and served by a sanitary sewer.



(N)   Any radio, television set, or musical instrument or device operated
in such manner or at such hours as to injure, annoy, inconvenience or damage
the public or persons living or doing business in the neighborhood.



(O)   The storage for sale or otherwise upon real property within the city
or within a distance of one-half (1/2) mile of the corporate limits of the
city, of junked automobiles, motor vehicles, tractors or trucks, used tires,
old iron or other metals, rags or rubber.



(P)   The operation or maintenance of any establishment for sale, purchase
or exchange of junked motor vehicles, old iron or other metals, rags or
rubber within the city or within the distance of one-half (1/2) mile of the
corporate limits of the city.



(Q)   The planting or placing in the ground within the area included
between the right of way lines of any street or alley in the city or within
two feet (2') of same in any direction, for the purpose of growing the same,
any of the following:



American elm (Ulmus americana)



Box elder (Acer negundo)



Catalpas (Catalpa species)



Chinese elm (Ulmus parvifolia)



Poplar (Populus species)



Silver or soft maple (Acer saccharinum)



Sycamore (Platanus occidentalis)



Tree of heaven (Ailanthus altissima)



Willows (Salix species)



(R)   The planting or placing in the ground for the purpose of growing the
same, a tree of any species so that the center of the trunk of same is within
two feet (2') of any existing public sidewalk in the city.



(S)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure, the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of others.



(T)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow trash, paper,
cardboard, wire, dirt, glass, brick, lumber, wood or litter of material
objects of any size or description to fall or be thrown upon city streets.



(U)   To permit the deposit, accumulation or piling up of any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, ashes, garbage, refuse,
plastic, brush, litter, weeds, slush, lead, glass bottles or broken glass
upon any lot, piece or parcel of public or private property.



(V)   To construct or maintain any buildings or structures in violation of
any of the building provisions of this city, or any building which is in an
unsanitary condition, or in an unsafe or dangerous condition, or which in any
manner endangers the health or safety of any person or persons, is hereby
declared a public nuisance. (Ord. 88-921, 6-6-1988)



(W)   To deposit into or onto any public street located in the city of
Flora, Illinois, green waste from any adjoining real estate along said
roadway. Green waste shall consist of grass clippings, leaves and cuttings
from shrubs and hedges as well as any green debris. The mowing of grass
causing discharge of green waste clippings and vegetation into the streets
shall be deemed a nuisance. Any individual or owner of real estate which
causes said discharge into the street shall remove the green waste including
grass clippings from the public street within two (2) hours after mowing or
any other method causing the same to be placed in said roadway. The
individual mowing or causing the discharge of green waste into the streets or
the owner of said real estate upon which said mowing or cutting occurs shall
be the responsible party to prevent the accumulation and deposit of grass and
yard waste into any public street in the city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord.
06-2016, 9-18-2006)



7-1-3: ENFORCEMENT:



When violations of this chapter occur, the city administrator, or other duly
authorized personnel, may issue a ticket to the owner, occupant, agent or
person in possession or control of any lot, building or premises in or upon
which any nuisance may be found, or who may be the owner or the cause of any
such nuisance. The city may file a civil action in the appropriate circuit
court of the state of Illinois to enforce the provisions hereof. Any attorney
fees, court costs or other costs involved in the filing of the suit to
enforce these provisions may be collected by the city against the defendant.
(Ord. 92-1110, 5-4-1992)



7-1-4: ABATEMENT:



(A)   If in the opinion of the mayor or the commissioner of public health
and safety, a public nuisance exists, they shall, through the police
department, and such other department or employees of the city as they may
deem proper, proceed to abate such public nuisance.



(B)   The commissioner of public health and safety, the police department
and other city departments and employees are authorized and empowered to go
upon any premises where such nuisance exists or originates and to remove,
destroy or otherwise abate such public nuisance and to prevent the
reestablishment thereof. (Ord. 92-1110, 5-4-1992)



(C)   In the event the city incurs any costs in removing, destroying or
otherwise abating said public nuisance and preventing the reestablishment
thereof or in the event the city filed suit in the circuit court of the state
or any other court of competent jurisdiction to enforce any provisions of
this chapter, the city shall be entitled to collection of said costs
including attorney fees, court costs and any other related costs in
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 94-1193, 4-4-1994)



7-1-5: PENALTY:



If anyone fails to abate said nuisances and is found guilty of violating any
section of this chapter or any state statute, he shall be punished by fine as
follows:




First offense    Not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00.





Second offense    Not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00.





Third offense
   and thereafter   Not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00.




(Ord. 88-921, 6-6-1988)



CHAPTER 2
DWELLING UNIT STANDARDS



7-2-1: TITLE, SCOPE:



This chapter shall be known, referred to and recited as THE HOUSING CODE OF
THE CITY OF FLORA and shall apply, according to the various portions thereof,
as specifically hereinafter set forth, to every dwelling unit and rooming
house used for human habitation within the city, whether or not said dwelling
unit or rooming house was erected, constructed or converted in full
compliance with the provisions of this code in effect at the time of such
erection, construction or conversion. It shall be unlawful for any person to
occupy or permit the occupancy of any dwelling unit which does not comply
with the requirements of this chapter or the regulations of the health
officer promulgated pursuant to this code; provided, that compliance with
this chapter shall not operate to exempt any dwelling unit from the
requirements of the building code, the plumbing code, the natural gas
regulations, fire prevention code, the electrical code or other applicable
provisions of this code 95 . (Ord. 67-45, 8-21-1967)



7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:



For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
otherwise clearly indicated by the context of the provision wherein the word
is found:



BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having less
than one-half (1/2) its clear floor to ceiling height below the average grade
of the adjoining ground.



CELLAR: A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having one-half (1/2) or more than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor to
ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.



DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms used or intended to be used as a
housekeeping unit for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, except for rooms
or groups of rooms in a "rooming house" as hereafter defined.



HABITABLE ROOM: A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, but does not include
bathrooms, toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, corridors, storage
spaces, stairways or closets.



OCCUPANT: Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in or having actual
possession of a dwelling unit.



OWNER: Any person or group of persons who shall have legal or equitable title
to a dwelling unit, the agent of said person, or any person having management
or control of any dwelling unit.



PERSON: An individual who is an owner or occupant of a dwelling unit.



ROOMING HOUSE: Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
(3) or more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or
father or sister or brother of the owner or operator.



ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit or
intended to be used for living or sleeping. (Ord. 67-45, 8-21-1967)



7-2-3: OCCUPANCY:



It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or permit the occupancy of any
dwelling unit in the city which does not comply with the occupancy
requirements of this section, as follows:



(A)   Every dwelling unit must contain at least one hundred twenty five
(125) square feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and one
hundred (100) square feet of floor space for each additional occupant
thereof, such floor area not to include verandas, porches, terraces,
balconies and basements; provided, however, that at least one habitable room
in each dwelling unit shall have no less than one hundred fifty (150) square
feet of floor space.



(B)   Every sleeping room used for single occupancy must contain at least
seventy (70) square feet of floor space; if used for multiple occupancy, it
shall contain at least fifty (50) square feet of floor space for each
occupant, provided that children under one year of age shall not be
considered persons for such computation.



(C)   No habitable room shall have a ceiling height of less than seven
feet six inches (7'6").



(D)   The number of persons occupying a dwelling unit shall not exceed one
and one-half (1 1/2) times the number of habitable rooms contained in such
dwelling unit. In the calculation of the number of persons occupying a
dwelling unit, children under one year of age shall not be included and
children under the age of twelve (12) years shall be counted as one-half
(1/2) person.



(E)   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two (2) or more sleeping
rooms shall have such room arrangements that access to bathrooms or water
closet compartments intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping
room can be had by going through another sleeping room, nor shall room
arrangement be such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going
through another sleeping room or bathroom or water closet compartment. (Ord.
67-45, 8-21-1967)



(F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or permit the
occupancy of any dwelling unit in the city which does not have an
unobstructed means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level.
(Ord. 69-74, 5-5-1969)



7-2-4: BASIC EQUIPMENT:



It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or permit the occupancy of any
dwelling unit in the city which does not comply with the requirements for
basic equipment set forth in this section as follows:



(A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls and separate from
all other rooms, a room equipped with a flush water closet. Such room shall
contain a window which may be opened to outside air or mechanical or gravity
ventilation, in proper operating condition. Such water closet shall conform
with the requirements of the plumbing code and shall be properly lighted.



(B)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a lavatory which is located in the
same room as the flush water closet or as near to that as is practicable.
Such lavatory shall conform with the requirements of the plumbing code.



(C)   Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a room separate
from the other habitable rooms and equipped with a bathtub or shower. Such
bathtub or shower shall conform with the provisions of the plumbing code. The
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower required herein may be located
in the same room provided that such room is separate from all habitable rooms
in the dwelling unit.



(D)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink.



(E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and water closet
required by this section shall be maintained in good operating condition and
shall be properly connected with hot and cold water lines and a sewer system
approved by the plumbing inspector of the city in accordance with the
provisions of this code. (Ord. 67-45, 8-21-1967)



7-2-5: VENTILATION AND LIGHT:



It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or permit the occupancy of any
dwelling unit in the city which does not comply with the requirements for
ventilation and light as set forth in this section as follows:



(A)   Every habitable room except kitchen shall have a window which may be
opened to the outdoors. The minimum total windows area measured between the
stops shall be ten percent (10%) of the floor areas of such room. (Ord.
67-45, 8-21-1967)



(B)   Every sleeping room shall have a total area openable to outside air
(by means of windows, louvers or other openings excluding doors) which is
five percent (5%) of the floor area of such sleeping room. (Ord. 69-74,
5-5-1969)



(C)   Windows shall not be required in kitchens having a floor area of
less than seventy (70) square feet provided such kitchens open into a
habitable room which meets the requirements of this section.



(D)   Every bathroom shall be vented and ventilated, as required by the
plumbing and sewer regulations of this code, and shall be lighted adequately
by artificial or natural light at all times. Hallways shall be ventilated
adequately by windows or doors opening onto such hallway from the outside and
shall be lighted adequately at all times by natural or artificial light.
(Ord. 67-45, 8-21-1967)



7-2-6: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:



It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or permit the occupancy of any
dwelling unit or room within any rooming house situated in the city which
does not comply with the following requirements:



(A)   Every dwelling unit and rooming house shall contain electrical
outlets and fixtures which comply with the electrical code of the city in
safety and number. Any hall, stairway or other place which is public in
nature shall be adequately lighted at all times.



(B)   Every dwelling unit or rooming house shall have heating facilities
which are properly installed, and maintained in safe and good working
condition, and are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments contained therein to a
temperature of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F), under ordinary winter
conditions; provided, that such heating facilities may either be contained in
each dwelling unit or if any building shall contain more than one dwelling
unit or rooming house, such heating facilities may be centrally located for
the use of the entire building so long as they comply with all other
requirements of this subsection and further provided that gas or electric
appliances designed exclusively for cooking or water heating purposes shall
not be considered as heating facilities within the meaning of this provision.
Every dwelling and rooming house shall have supplied water heating facilities
which are properly installed, are maintained in good and safe working
condition, are properly connected with the hot and cold lines required under
the provisions of subsection 7-2-4(E) of this chapter, and are capable of
heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water
to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub or shower
at a temperature of not less than one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit
(120°F). Such supplied water heating facilities shall be capable of meeting
the requirements of this subsection when the dwelling or rooming house
heating facilities required under this subsection are not in operation.



(C)   The windows, doors and other openings to external air of every
dwelling unit or rooming house shall be equipped with adequate screens or
other appliances so attached or arranged as to prevent the ingress of flies,
mosquitoes and other winged insects to the interior of such dwelling unit
from April 15 to November 15 of each year and as to prevent the ingress of
rodents to the interior of such unit.



(D)   No basement space shall be used for a dwelling unit unless:



1. The floors and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and surface
runoff water and are insulated against dampness;



2. The required minimum window area is located entirely above the finished
elevation of the ground adjoining the building wall in which the windows are
located;



3. The dwelling unit or rooming house meets the other requirements of this
chapter.



(E)   No cellar space shall be used for human habitation. (Ord. 67-45,
8-21-1967)



(F)   No dwelling unit shall be rented to any individual without the
building official inspecting the unit for violations of the building code or
health code of the city. Whenever a vacancy occurs in any rental unit used
for a residence and prior to the landlord/owner renting the unit again, the
landlord/owner shall notify the building official of the vacancy and the
building official shall enter upon the premises and inspect the same for any
code violations. The building official shall notify the landlord/owner of all
code violations and the same shall be cured prior to the landlord/owner
renting the premises or selling the premises.



Regardless of the above, every dwelling unit which is a rental unit may be
inspected by the city of Flora building official on an annual basis, whether
said rental unit is occupied or not. The building official is granted
authority to enter upon the premises and inspect the same for building code
or health code violations or otherwise noted by the building official. The
building official shall notify the landlord/owner of all code violations and
the same shall be cured within a reasonable period of time by the
landlord/owner of said real estate. In the event said violation is serious
enough to concern the building official as to the health, safety and welfare
of the individuals occupying the same, the building official shall notify the
landlord/owner and said landlord/owner shall cause said premises to be
immediately vacated until the violations have been cured. As to all other
violations, the building official shall grant a reasonable period of time for
said landlord/owner to cure any noted code violations.



For purposes of this section, a rental unit shall include any residence,
apartment or otherwise where rent either through monetary payment, trading of
services or otherwise is being paid to the landlord/owner, being purchased by
an individual on a contract for deed or otherwise from the landlord/owner and
furthermore, includes any unit whether a residence, apartment or otherwise
where the landlord/owner is not receiving rental payment in any form from a
tenant.



All inspections set forth hereinabove shall be subject to the following
annual fees:



1.   5 rental units or less $ 50.00/yr



2.   6-10 rentals units $100.00/yr



3.   11-20 rental units $200.00/yr



4.   More than 21 rentals units $300.00/yr



In the event the first inspection does not render the rental unit compliant
with the codes, the landlord/owner shall pay $25.00 for the second
inspection, $50.00 for the third inspection and $75.00 for each additional
inspection thereafter until the rental unit becomes compliant.



Any person violating this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
after issuance of a citation by either the building official or the city of
Flora police department for the landlord/owner's failure to comply with the
above.



(Ord. 92-1139, 12-7-1992; amd. Ord. 10-2312, 2-1-2010; amd. Ord. 11-2424,
6-6-2011; amd. Ord. 15-2727, 11-2-2015)



7-2-7: OCCUPANTS:



The occupants of each dwelling unit and of rooms within any rooming house
situated in the city, whether rented or owner occupied, shall be responsible
for the following:



(A)   To keep such dwelling in a clean, sanitary and safe condition.



(B)   To keep all plumbing and other fixtures required by this chapter in
a clean and sanitary condition.



(C)   To exterminate any insects, rodents or other pests which may be
found on the premises.



(D)   To dispose of all garbage and other refuse in the containers and in
the manner required by the provisions of this code.



(E)   To hang and remove all screens required for the dwelling unit.



(F)   Not to place on the premises any material which causes a fire hazard
or otherwise endangers the health or safety of any occupant of such dwelling
unit nor place in storage on the premises any furniture, equipment or
material which harbors insects, rodents or other pests.



The owner or owners of any dwelling unit which has been rented for human
habitation shall be responsible for providing and keeping in good operating
condition such equipment as is required for such dwelling by this chapter.
(Ord. 67-45, 8-21-1967)



7-2-8: ROOMING HOUSES:



It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or permit the occupancy of any
rooming house situated in the city which does not comply with the following
requirements, in addition to the requirements specified above:



(A)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
plumbing inspector and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each
eight (8) persons residing within a rooming house, including the members of
the operator's family wherever they share the use of such facilities. All
such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as to be reasonably
accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons sharing such
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot water at all times. No such facilities shall be located in a basement
except upon written approval of the health officer.



(B)   Every room or group of rooms occupied by one occupant or group of
occupants, as a unit, must contain at least one hundred twenty five (125)
square feet of floor space for the first occupant and fifty (50) square feet
of floor space for each additional occupant, such floor area not to include
verandas, porches, terraces, balconies and basements; provided, that children
under one year of age shall not be considered an occupant. The number of
occupants per unit shall not exceed two (2) times the number of separate
units, provided that children under one shall not be included and children
under twelve (12) shall be counted as one-half (1/2).



(C)   No habitable room shall have a ceiling height of less than seven
feet six inches (7'6"). (Ord. 67-45, 8-21-1967)



Every operator of a rooming house within the city shall be responsible for
changing supplied bed linen and towels at least once a week and prior to the
letting of any room to any occupant 96 . (Ord. 69-74, 5-5-1969)



7-2-9: ENFORCEMENT:



It shall be the duty of the building official of the city to enforce the
provisions of the housing code of the city. He shall have such assistance
that the city council may approve. For the purposes of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter the building official is hereby authorized to
enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwelling units and
rooming houses within the city. The owner or occupant of every dwelling unit
and rooming house shall give the health official or his representative free
access to such dwelling unit at all reasonable times for the purpose of such
inspection, examination and survey.



If any violation shall be found to exist, the building official or his
representative, shall serve written notice of such violation upon the owner
or his agent or the occupant as the case may require. Such notice may be
served at the time of the inspection or by mail within ten (10) days after
the date of such inspection. Such notice if not served personally shall be
determined properly served if a copy thereof is sent to the occupant or to
the owner as the case may require by U.S. mail at his last known address. The
notice shall indicate the provisions of this chapter which are being violated
and may grant a period of time for compliance, of not less than fifteen (15)
days. Within said period of time for compliance, if such violations have not
been eliminated, the owner or occupant failing to comply shall be subject to
the penalty provisions of this code unless he has within said period of time
for compliance appealed from said violation notice to the board of health of
the city. Such appeal to the board of health of the city shall be initiated
by the owner or occupant who received such violation notice by serving upon
the city clerk, in person, a statement of intent to appeal. Thereafter
hearings shall be conducted by the board of health of the city as are
provided by rules and regulations promulgated by the board of health and in
the same manner in which hearings are held by the board of health to
determine the fitness of dwellings for habitation. (Ord. 92-1139, 12-7-1992)



7-2-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS:



The building official is hereby authorized and empowered to make such rules
and regulations as he may deem necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Such rules and regulations may be promulgated from time to time and
shall be effective. (Ord. 92-1139, 12-7-1992)



7-2-11: DWELLINGS UNFIT FOR HABITATION:



The building official of the city shall, upon request from a member of the
city council, the fire chief, the police chief or other responsible city
official, investigate any dwelling for human habitation to determine whether
such dwelling unit or units is fit for human habitation, as hereinafter
defined. If, upon inspection of said dwelling unit or units, the building
official shall determine that such dwelling unit or units are unfit for human
habitation, he shall cause to be served notice, in writing, upon all
occupants and owners of such dwelling unit or units of his determination,
which said notice shall be served either in person or by U.S. mail to the
last known address of all such occupants and owners, not less than fifteen
(15) days prior to public hearing before the board of health of the city.
Such notice shall set forth a time and place for said hearing. If, after a
hearing at which all persons affected may appear and show cause why the
dwelling unit should not be vacated, the said board of health should also
determine that any dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, an order of
the building official shall issue and be served upon the owner and occupant
that such dwelling unit is to be vacated within a reasonable time. A unit
shall be deemed to be unfit for human habitation, if it is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe or vermin infested that it creates a
serious hazard to the health and safety of the occupants or of the public, or
if it lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities adequate to
protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public. Such unit
shall remain unoccupied until the building official shall determine that the
defect or defects upon which the order of vacation was based have been
eliminated.



The building official shall give ten (10) days' notice in writing to the
owner and occupants of the hearing on the vacation of any dwelling unit;
provided, that if the building official shall determine that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health and
safety, he may order any dwelling unit to be immediately vacated without the
notice and hearing provided herein.



All dwelling units which have been ordered vacated pursuant to the provisions
of this section shall be placarded as follows:



   ORDER TO VACATE



This dwelling unit has been found to be unfit for human habitation by the
Building Official of the City of Flora pursuant to Section 7-2-11 of the City
Code. No person shall occupy or let for occupancy this dwelling after    
                  , 19    . Any person occupying or letting for
occupancy this dwelling unit after the above date, shall be subject to a fine
of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each day of such occupancy.



Any person removing said placard shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor 97 .
(Ord. 92-1139, 12-7-1992)



7-2-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:



In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with
any other provision of this code, the provision which establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the public health and safety
shall prevail. (Ord. 67-45, 8-21-1967)



 


Notes

95 
65 ILCS 5/11-30-1 et seq., 5/11-31.1-4.

96 
65 ILCS 5/11-30-3.

97 
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq., 5/11-31.1-1 et seq.



CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE, REFUSE



7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:



As used in this chapter, the following words are defined as follows:



ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings 98 .



GARBAGE: Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.



REFUSE: Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches not to exceed five feet (5')
in length, provided that said tree branches are bound by twine and said
bundle does not exceed two and one-half feet (2 1/2') in diameter, wood
furniture, bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to,
metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces
of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral waste; street rubbish, including,
but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt, catch basin dirt, contents of
litter receptacles; provided, refuse shall not include earth and wastes from
building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from
industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing
wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings. (Ord. 793,
8-24-1964; amd. Ord. 90-1031, 5-7-1990)



7-3-2: UNCOVERED GARBAGE:



It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any
garbage, or other material subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
excepting in a tightly covered container. (Ord. 793, 8-24-1964)



7-3-3: WINDBLOWN REFUSE:



It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate anywhere in the city
any refuse or ashes of such a material that it can be blown away by the wind
excepting in a covered container. (Ord. 793, 8-24-1964)



7-3-4: DEPOSITS ON STREETS:



It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the city; provided,
that this section shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse
or ashes in a container complying with the provisions of this chapter
preparatory to having such material collected and disposed of in the manner
provided herein. (Ord. 793, 8-24-1964)



7-3-5: CONSENT OF OWNER:




It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on any
premises in the city without the consent of the owner of such premises. (Ord.
793, 8-24-1964)




7-3-6: DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE:




It shall be unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse or ashes anywhere in
the city except in a disposal device, properly constructed and operated or in
a lawfully established garbage or refuse dump. Such material not so properly
disposed of shall be placed in containers for collection by the city or by
scavengers licensed by the city. (Ord. 67-48, 9-18-1967)




7-3-7: COLLECTION BY CITY:




The commissioner of public health and safety shall have charge of all of the
collection of garbage, refuse and trash in the city. The collection shall be
made from all premises at least once each week, provided that the material is
properly stored for collection in a container complying with the provisions
of this code.




The fees 1 for the collection of the garbage paid monthly upon receipt of the
bill, for a one time per week collection, or otherwise as noted hereinbelow,
shall be as follows:



 


Single-family residence in city

 
 
$17.72 per month


Single-family residence outside city
 
 
21.15 per month


Commercial with garbage cans only in city (1 pick up per week)
 
 
23.38 per month


Commercial with garbage cans only in city (2 pick ups per week)
 
 
35.09 per month








The remaining fees for garbage pick up and services related thereto, shall be
set on an annual basis by the city council. A copy thereof shall be available
at the city hall building at 131 East 2nd Street, Flora, Illinois, for
inspection by the public. The fees for collection on an hourly rate shall be
determined by the customer and the company providing the trash pick up. The
city shall not be responsible for handling of hourly rate calls and requests.



The above fees shall be charged to each residence and commercial
establishment.



(Ord. 06-2006, 8-7-2006; amd. Ord. 08-2158, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 11-2465,
12-5-2011; amd. Ord. 16-2794, 12-5-2016)



7-3-8: LIMITATION OF AMOUNTS:



For any residential pick up, the maximum pick up each week shall be four (4)
containers of thirty (30) gallons each. In the event the residential customer
has five (5) to ten (10) containers in any week, there shall be an additional
fee of five dollars ($5.00) for that week. If the residential customer has
eleven (11) to twenty (20) containers in any week, there shall be an
additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for that week. If there are more than
twenty (20) containers in any week, or if it is necessary for an extra pick
up, additional fees shall be at the rate of thirty five dollars ($35.00) per
hour.



As to residential, commercial or industrial customers, if it is necessary for
an extra pick up, the additional fee shall be at the rate of thirty five
dollars ($35.00) per hour. Any garbage or refuse not in a container or
packmaster will be subject to an additional fee to be determined by the city.
(Ord. 87-828, 5-4-1987)



7-3-9: CONTAINERS:



All garbage, refuse and ashes for collection by the city shall be placed in
metal, fiberglass or plastic containers equipped with a cover and equipped
with handles so that they may be lifted and carried by one man. No such
container shall have a capacity of less than twenty (20) gallons or more than
thirty (30) gallons. (Ord. 793, 8-24-1964)



7-3-10: PLACING OF CONTAINERS:



All containers shall be placed by the residents for front street terrace pick
up by the city garbage department or as otherwise determined by the
commissioner of public health and safety, which placement shall be accessible
to collectors and consistent with a clean and neat appearance. (Ord. 88-939,
10-24-1988)



7-3-11: AIR CONTAMINATION CONTROL:



(A)   It shall be unlawful to burn garbage, refuse and ashes anywhere in
the city except in a stove, furnace or incinerator inside a building. (Ord.
67-48, 9-18-1967)



(B)   It shall be unlawful to burn leaves or vegetation in the city,
except that leaves may be burned between sunrise and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
from November 1 through April 30 of each year and sunrise and seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. of each day from May 1 through October 31, of each year, provided
that all such fires shall be located upon the ground and not in barrels or
other containers or receptacles, that such fires shall not be left unattended
at any time by the person burning the leaves and that all such fires shall be
completely extinguished by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. or seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. depending upon the day of the year, upon the day when such fires are
lighted. (Ord. 73-188, 10-1-1973; amd. Ord. 13-2570, 6-17-2013)



7-3-12: LICENSING SCAVENGERS:



(Rep. by Ord. 88-939, 10-24-1988)



7-3-13: USE OF CITY OWNED SANITARY LANDFILL:



(Rep. by Ord. 02-1712, 2-19-2002)



7-3-14: BILLS:



(Rep. by Ord. 02-1712, 2-19-2002)



7-3-15: FAILURE TO PAY FEE:



(Rep. by Ord. 02-1712, 2-19-2002)



7-3-16: MANDATORY PICKUP:



All residents, commercial and business establishments within the city
provided any utility by the city, shall be required to pay a monthly service
charge for garbage collection, whether or not they use said collection
service. (Ord. 89-964, 3-6-1989)



7-3-17: LIMITATION ON CONTAINER PLACEMENT:



All containers shall be placed for pickup as prescribed by this chapter from
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. the preceding day of scheduled pickup and shall be
removed from such placement location by eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. the day of
such pickup. (Ord. 88-939, 10-24-1988)



7-3-18: PENALTIES:



Any person who fails to comply with section 7-3-17 of this chapter, and who
is given notice of a violation of said section, may pay ten dollars ($10.00)
to the city clerk to avoid prosecution. Any person who repeatedly violates
section 7-3-17 of this chapter, or who fails to pay said ten dollars ($10.00)
within fourteen (14) days shall be prosecuted for violating this chapter and
upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than thirty dollars
($30.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, which
fine shall be exclusive of court costs which may be assessed against the
violator. (Ord. 88-939, 10-24-1988)



 


Notes

98 
65 ILCS 5/11-19-1 et seq.

1 
Rates effective December 1, 2016.



CHAPTER 4
SEWERS



7-4-1: FILING OF SEWER PLANS:



(A)   No franchise shall be granted to any person desiring to lay a
sanitary sewer in the public streets and alleys unless the sewer plan has
been approved by a competent engineer, nor unless a blue line or black line
print of the proposed sewer is filed in duplicate with the city clerk.



(B)   The sewer plan must show with particularity the course of the sewer,
the streets and alleys under which the sewer will run, and the lots or
subdivision which will be furnished sewerage facilities by the sewer. The
plan must also show the exact location of the sewer in the streets and
alleys, the depths, grades, elevations and fall insofar as they can
practicably be shown thereon, the location and dimension of all manholes.



(C)   No private sewer laid in the streets and alleys of the city prior to
August 25, 1941, shall be accepted by the city as a part of the system of
sanitary sewers of the city, unless the person desiring to transfer or convey
the private sewer to the city files with the city clerk a sewer plan
complying with this section, nor unless the sewer is in good condition and
not stopped or clogged up at the time of the transfer 101 . (1956 Code, Sec.
5.01)



7-4-2: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:



Upon conviction of a violation, the commissioner of public health and safety,
the police department and other city departments and employees are authorized
and empowered to go upon private properties where any such violation occurred
and remove, destroy or otherwise abate such violation in such manner as to
prevent the reestablishment thereof 102 . (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:



(A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within
the city of Flora or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.



(B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city of Flora, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided
in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.



(C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.



(D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined)
sewer of the city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within
ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said
public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') (30.48 m) of the property
line. (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



(E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect
or cause to be connected to any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device
discharge including substances into any storm sewer constructed as a part of
the improvement of FAP 327 (U.S. Route 50/45) between the intersection of
U.S. Route 50 and FA 26 (U.S. 45) west of Flora and the intersection of U.S.
Route 50 and North State Street in the city of Flora, Illinois.



Any person, firm or corporation violating this subsection (E) shall be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense and separate offense shall be deemed
committed each and every day in which a violation continues or exists. (Ord.
05-1967, 11-21-2005)



7-4-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:



(A)   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under
the provisions of subsection 7-4-3(D) of this chapter, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this section.



(B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
commissioner of public property or such other person, official or employee
designated by the city council to issue such permit. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city 1 , which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are
deemed necessary by the commissioner of public property or such other person,
official or employee designated by the city council. A permit and inspection
fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.



(C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
commissioner of public property or such other person, official or employee
designated by the city council. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the commissioner of public property or such other person,
official or employee designated by the city council when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of
written notice by the commissioner of public property or such other person,
official or employee designated by the city council.



(D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state of
Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code and with the state of
Illinois environmental protection agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet (3,222.30 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.



(E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
7-4-3(D) of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material.



(F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.



(G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Clay
County health department of Clay County, Illinois.



(H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days and the private sewage
disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run
gravel or dirt. (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:



(A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the commissioner of public
property or such other person, official or employee as may be designated by
the city council.



(B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards. (Ord. 77-336,
2-7-1977)



(C)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential and commercial service, and 2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the city 104 . The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the commissioner of
public property or such other person, official or employee as may be
designated by the city council. A permit and inspection fee of one hundred
twenty five dollars ($125.00) for a residential or commercial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. The
industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
(Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977; amd. Ord. 78-416, 12-18-1978, eff. 1-2-1979)



(D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.



(E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.



(F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another
on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to
the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building
and the whole considered as one building sewer.



(G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the commissioner of
public property or such other person, official or employee designated by the
city council, to meet all requirements of this chapter.



(H)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American society of testing materials, water pollution
control federation manual of practice no. 9, and standard specifications for
water and sewer main construction in Illinois shall apply.



(I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means
which is approved in accordance with subsection (B) of this section, and
discharged to the building sewer.



(J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.



(K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American society of testing materials,
water pollution control federation manual of practice no. 9, and standard
specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the commissioner of
public property or such other person, official or employee designated by the
city council before installation.



(L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
commissioner of public property or such other person, official or employee
designated by the city council when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the commissioner of public property or such other
person, official or employee designated by the city council.



(M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-5-1: RELOCATION OF EXISTING LINES, FEE:



Any sewer user who elects to relocate an existing sewer service line shall
pay to the city as a fee therefor, the actual labor and material costs of the
city. (Ord. 85-702, 4-15-1985)



7-4-6: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:



(A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.



(B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm
sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the commissioner of public
property. Industrial cooling water of unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the commissioner of public property, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.



(C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:



1. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid, or gas.



2. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard
in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.



3. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths (5.5) or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.



4. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.



(D)   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until
the city has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:



1. Meets the requirements of section 204(b)(1)(B) of the federal water
pollution control act amendments of 1972 105 and applicable federal
regulations; and



2. Has been approved by the agency in accordance with the conditions of any
grant made to the city by the United States environmental protection agency
or of the state of Illinois for the construction of any part of the sewer
system or sewage treatment works of the city.



(E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in
the opinion of the commissioner of public property that such wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the commissioner of public property will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the
sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:



1. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).



2. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100
mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and 65°C).



3. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the commissioner of public property.



4. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.



5. Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or similar
objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
commissioner of public property for such materials.



6. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor producing
substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established
by the commissioner of public property as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.



7. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the commissioner of public property in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.



8. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five-tenths (9.5).



9. Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligrams per
liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the commissioner of public
property in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.



10. Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time except as
permitted by the commissioner of public property in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.



11. Materials which exert or cause:



(a) Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);



(b) Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions);



(c) Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in such
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;



(d) Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting "slugs"
as defined herein.



12. Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



13. No person, firm or corporation shall discharge any sanitary or industrial
solids or liquids, required by the statutes of the state of Illinois, or any
law or regulation in force in the state of Illinois with respect to sanitary
or industrial wastes and the discharge thereof, into any storm sewer or storm
drain located within the city limits of the city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord.
78-380, 2-6-1978)



(F)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection (E) of this section,
and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in
chapter 1, EPA rules and regulations, subchapter D, water programs part 138 -
pretreatment standards, federal register volume 38, no. 215, Thursday,
November 8, 1973, and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of
the commissioner of public property may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the commissioner of
public property may:



1. Reject the wastes;



2. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;



3. Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or



4. Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection (L) of this section.



If the commissioner of public property permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the commissioner of
public property or such other person, official or employee designated by the
city council, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.



(G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the commissioner of public property, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or
any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
commissioner of public property, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.



(H)   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense.



(I)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and,
when required by the commissioner of public property or such other person,
official or employee designated by the city council, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall
install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and
other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall
be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the commissioner of public property or such other person,
official or employee designated by the city council. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as
to be safe and accessible at all times.



(J)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses
of waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any
special conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and
frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as
stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year the industry must
supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to
assure that compliance with the federal, state, and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the
city. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.



(K)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by the American public health
association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of
all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24 hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)



(L)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, in accordance with section 7-4-9 of this chapter, by the industrial
concern, provided such payments are in accordance with federal and state
guidelines for user charge system and industrial cost recovery system. (Ord.
77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-7: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:



No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment
which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:



(A)   The commissioner of public property and any other person, official
or employee designated by the city council, the Illinois environmental
protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
commissioner of public property and any other person, official or employee
designated by the city council, shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metalurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.



(B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection (A) of this section, the commissioner of public property or
any other person, official or employee designated by the city council, the
Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental
protection agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company
against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in subsection 7-4-6(I) of this chapter.



(C)   The commissioner of public property and any other person, official
or employee designated by the city council bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement.
All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in
full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved. (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-9: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:



(A)   Basis For Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
city shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus
replacement, a debt service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.



The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service
of all outstanding bonds and interest by the number of users. Through further
divisions, the monthly and quarterly debt service charges can be computed.



The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by water
meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:



1. A five (5) day 20-degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).



2. A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams per liter
(250 mg/l).



It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement and
shall be computed as follows:



1. Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and maintain the
wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year, for all
works categories.



2. Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible.



3. Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be treated.



4. Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and industrial users by
volume, suspended solids and BOD.



5. Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage strength.



6. Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per milligrams
per liter in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.



A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
concentrations for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the two hundred seventy milligrams per liter (270 mg/l)
and three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) concentration for BOD and
SS respectively. Subsection (F) of this section specifies the procedure to
compute a surcharge.



The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed annually by
certified public accountants for the city in their annual audit report. The
wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change
in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs including
replacement costs.



(B)   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic
user charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to
the lowest even increments of one hundred (100) gallons.



1. If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any part,
or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks system,
all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
commissioner of public property for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.



2. Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the commissioner of public property if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.



3. Metering devices for determining by volume of waste shall be installed,
owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and installation,
such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled, without the
consent of the commissioner of public property.



(C)   Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge of eighty six cents
($0.86) per month to each user of the wastewater facility of the city is
hereby established.



(D)   Basic User Rate: There shall be and there is hereby established a
minimum charge and a basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the city. A minimum charge of one dollar
eighty cents ($1.80) per month shall be applied to all users whose water
consumption does not exceed one thousand (1,000) gallons per month, which
amount includes the debt service charge.



A basic user rate of ninety four cents ($0.94) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons shall be applied to all users for water consumption in excess of one
thousand (1,000) gallons per month.



All nonmetered residential users of the wastewater facilities shall pay a
minimum flat rate charge per quarter adequate to cover the costs of the
minimum debt service charge, the minimum service charge and the basic user
rate of ninety four cents ($0.94) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. The flat
rate charge will allow a maximum of one thousand (1,000) gallons per month.



In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the
commissioner of public property to be in excess of one thousand (1,000)
gallons per month, the commissioner of public property may require such flat
rate user to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer main to
measure the amount of service supplied.



(E)   Surcharge Rate: The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as
follows:



$0.01/lb BOD 5 over 200 mg/l - BOD5



$0.013/lb SS over 250 mg/l - SS



(F)   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the commissioner of
public property and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.



(G)   Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service
charge shall be computed by the following formula:



CW = CD + CM + (Vu-X) CU + CS




Where   CW   =   Amount of wastewater service charge (S) per billing
period.





   CD   =   Debt service charge as established in subsection (C) of
this section.





   CM   =   Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and
replacement as established in subsection (D) of this section.





   Vu   =   Wastewater volume for the billing period.





   X   =   Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
as established in subsection (D) of this section.





   CU1   =   Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and
replacement as established in subsection (D) of this section.





   CS   =   Amount of surcharge as established in subsections (E)
and (F) of this section.




(Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-10: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:



(This section reserved for possible future use, there being no industrial
users at the time of the adoption of this section.) (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-11: GENERAL PROVISIONS:



(A)   Bills: Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly
for which bills are rendered.



The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises
and that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are
jointly and severally liable therefor to the city. Bills for sewer service
shall be sent out by the city collector on the first day of the month
succeeding the period for which the service is billed.



All sewer bills are due and payable ten (10) days after being sent out. A
penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to all bills not paid by the
fifteenth day after they have been rendered.



(B)   Delinquent Bills: If the charges for such services are not paid
within ten (10) days or twenty (20) days herein above mentioned after the
rendition of the bill for such services, such services shall be discontinued
without further notice and shall not be reinstated until the claims are
settled.



(C)   Lien; Notice Of Delinquency: Whenever a bill for sewer service
remains unpaid for twenty (20) days for monthly service after it has been
rendered, the city collector shall file with the county recorder of deeds a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description
of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the
city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to
the period covered by the bill.



If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the
city collector has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address be known to the collector, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period of forty five (45) days for a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. The failure of the city collector to record such lien or to
mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the
following subsection.



(D)   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall
be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity
in the name of the city. The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid forty five (45) days in the case of a monthly bill after it
has been rendered.



(E)   Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
sewerage system shall be deposited in the water and sewerage account of the
water and sewage fund. All such revenues and monies shall be held by the city
collector separate and apart from his private funds and separate and apart
from all other funds of the city and all of said sum, without any deductions
whatever, shall be delivered to the city treasurer not more than three (3)
days after request of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may
from time to time be directed by the city council.



The city treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage system
and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as
the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the water and sewage fund of the city. Said treasurer
shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute
of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act", effective January 1942.



(F)   Accounts: The city treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts
and disbursements of the sewerage system.



In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit report
shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to
be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the
audit report shall include the following:



1. Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for the
current fiscal year.



2. Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.



3. Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.



4. Number of users connected to the system.



5. Number of nonmetered users.



6. A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users) and
volume of waste discharged.



(G)   Notice Of Rates: A copy of this section properly certified by the
city clerk shall be filed in the office of the recorder of deeds of Clay
County and shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges
of the sewerage system of said city on their properties.



(H)   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency or
its authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents,
papers and records of the city which are applicable to the city system of
user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making audit,
examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with
the terms of the special and general conditions to any state grant. (Ord.
77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-12: EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES:



The rates and service charges established for user charges in subsections
7-4-9(A) through 7-4-9(G) of this chapter, inclusive, shall be effective as
of the next fiscal year beginning May 1, 1977, and on bills to be rendered
for the next succeeding month being June 1, 1977, for monthly users. (Ord.
77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-13: DEFINITIONS:



Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:



CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.



FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:



Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.



Federal Act: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) as
amended by the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972 (Pub.
L. 92-500) and (Pub. L. 93-243).



Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - grants for
construction of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.



LOCAL GOVERNMENT:



Approving Authority: The commissioner of public property or such other
person, official or employee designated by the city council.



City: The city of Flora, Illinois.



Ordinance: This ordinance.



NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator, or, where appropriate by the director after enactment of the
federal water pollution control amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the federal act.



PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.



SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:



Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face
of the building wall.



Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.



Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.



Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.



Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that serve
one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary (or
combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with city funds.



Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.



Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.



Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.



Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.



Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.



STATE GOVERNMENT:



Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.



State Act: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970.



State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of
the state of Illinois.



TREATMENT:



Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.



Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".



TYPES OF CHARGES:



Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.



Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding and shall
be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the number of users
connected to the wastewater facilities.



Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement.



Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in section 7-4-11 of this
chapter.



Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be twenty (20) years from the date
of start up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.



User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.



Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall consist of the total or the
basic user charge, the debt service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.



Water And Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the sewerage system.



USER TYPES:



Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the city
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.



Industrial User: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the standard industrial classification manual, 1972, office of
management and budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:




Division A   Agriculture, forestry and fishing





Division B   Mining





Division D   Manufacturing





Division E   Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services





Division I   Services




A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the
commissioner of public property that it will introduce primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.



Residential Or Commercial Or Nonindustrial User: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user
as provided for in this section.



User Class: The type of user either residential or commercial (nonindustrial)
or industrial as defined herein.



WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:



BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in
milligrams per liter.



Effluent Criteria: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.



Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.



Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.



Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial
or business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.



Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: 1) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or
more per average workday; or 2) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of
the flow carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or 3) has in
its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standard issued
under section 307(a) of the federal act; or 4) is found by the permit
issuance authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to
the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries,
on that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment
works.



Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts
per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the
results of water and wastewater analysis.



ppm: Parts per million by weight.



pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard
Methods".



Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen-hundredths
(0.17) pounds of BOD and twenty-hundredths (0.20) pounds of suspended solids.



Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch
(1/2") (1.27 cm) in any dimension.



Sewage: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".



Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.



Standard Methods: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" published jointly by the American public health association, the
American water works association and the water pollution control federation.



Suspended Solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by
a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended
solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard
Methods".



Unpolluted Water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.



Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be
present.



Water Quality Standards: Defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.



WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.



WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:



Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.



Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-14: APPLICATIONS FOR SEWER PERMITS:



All applications for sewer permits including residential or commercial
building sewer applications, private sewage disposal applications and
industrial sewer connection applications shall be filed with the city clerk's
office at city hall in the city of Flora, Illinois, on forms provided by the
city clerk's office. No construction or use of any sewage system shall be
commenced until such time as approved by the city building official of the
city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 02-1708, 2-19-2002)



7-4-15: METHODS OF COMPUTATION OF USER CHARGE SYSTEMS AND INDUSTRIAL COST
RECOVERY SYSTEMS:



(A)   Definition of symbols and identification of available data:



1. The symbolic representation of the data shall be:



(a) BOD = 5 day biochemical oxygen demand



(b) SS = suspended solids



(c) Q = flow



The data which quantify the twelve (12) month average values for sewage
treatment plant influent data are as follows:



(d) BOC = 152 mg/l



(e) SS = 181.4 mg/l



(f) Q = 450,000 g/d



2. The symbolic representation of the discharge data for the i'th industry
shall be: n/a




(a) BOD i   =  5 day biochemical oxygen demand





(b) SS i     =  suspended solids





(c) Q i       =  flow (Any user's 12 month average metered water usage
should be adjusted for any quantities of water which are not discharged to
the sewer system.)




The data which quantity the twelve (12) month average values for the
discharge data for the industrial users of the sewerage works are as
indicated in this chapter.



3. The symbolic representation of the twelve (12) month annual average values
for the discharge data for the i'th nonindustrial user of the sewerage works
shall be:



Q i     =    flow (Any user's 12 month average metered water usage should
be adjusted for any quantities of water which are not discharged to the sewer
system.)



and the five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand and the suspended solids
concentrations are unknown.



4. The symbolic representation of the domestic population using the sewerage
works shall be:



DP = domestic population



(B)   Definition of symbols and computation of characteristic values for
nonindustrial waste discharges:



1. The symbolic representation of the twelve (12) month average
characteristic values for flow are:



(a) Q NI   =   total nonindustrial discharge



(b) q        =   per capita nonindustrial discharge



and the computed values are:



                          n
(c) Q NI =    [summation]    q i = 450,000 g/d DP=5231
                        i=1



(d) q  =  Q NI /DP  = 86.03 g/cap/d



2. The symbolic representation of the twelve (12) month average
characteristic values for five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand are:



           
(a) BOD  =   concentration of 5 day biochemical oxygen demand



(b) bod    =   per capita 5 day biochemical oxygen demand



and the computed values are:



                                            n
(c) BOD = [(BOD x Q) - (summation  BOD i x Q i )] ÷ Q NI = 152 mg/l
                                            i =1



                                          n
(d) bod = [(BOD x Q) - (summation  BOD i x Q i )] x 8.34 + DP = 0.109
    #/cap/d                          i=1



3. The symbolic representation of the twelve (12) month average
characteristic values for suspended solids are:



(a) SS = concentration of suspended solids



(b) ss = per capita suspended solids



and the computed values are:



                                        n
(c) SS = [(SS x Q) - (summation  SS i x Q i )] ÷ Q NI = 181.40 mg/l
                                    i=1



                                        n
(d) ss = [(SS x Q) - (summation  SS i x Q i )] x 8.34 ÷ DP = 0.130 #/cap/d
                                    i=1



(C)   (Reserved for possible future use for definition of symbols and
computation of industrial population equivalents.)



(D)   Determination of user charges for operation, maintenance, and
replacement:



1. Computation of unit costs:



(a) Where costs cannot be allocated among five (5) day biochemical oxygen
demand, suspended solids, and flow:



(1) The symbolic representation of the cost for operation, maintenance, and
replacement shall be:



$BOD,SS,Q -= total operation, maintenance, and replacement costs



(2) The symbolic representation of the per capita cost for operation,
maintenance and replacement shall be:



$BOD,SS,Q/cap -= per capita operation, maintenance, and replacement costs



(3) The value of the per capita operation, maintenance, and replacement cost
is:



$BOD,SS,Q/cap = $BOD,SS,Q ÷ [DP ÷ 1/3 x (summation  PE BODi
                                                   
                          i=1
÷ PE SSi ÷ PE Pi ] = $30.45/year/person



2. Computation of user charge rate per gallon of discharge for nonindustrial
users of the sewerage works:



(a) Where costs cannot be allocated among five (5) day biochemical oxygen
demand, suspended solids, and flow:



(1) The symbolic representation of the user charge rate per gallon of
discharge for nonindustrial users shall be:



$/g  =   user charge rate per gallon of discharge



(2) The value of the user charge rate per gallon of discharge is:



$/g = $BOD,SS,Q/cap x DP ÷ Q NI = $0.00094/g



3. Summary of user charges:



(a) For nonindustrial users and for the normal strength component of wastes
from industrial users:



(1) The symbolic representation of the user charge for normal strength
wastes, as contained in this chapter is:



CU  =   user charge



(2) The relationship between "CU" and "$/g" is as follows:



CU = $/g x 1000



inasmuch as "CU" is a charge per one thousand (1,000) gallons of sewage
discharge



(b) For the higher than normal strength component of wastes from industrial
users:



(1) The symbolic representation of the surcharge for higher than normal
strength wastes, as contained in this chapter is:



CS  =   surcharge for an industrial user



(2) The relationship between "CS" and "SC i " is as follows:



CS = SC i



(Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-16: USE OF CITY SEWAGE DISPOSAL PLANT:



(A)   Any person may transport and dump raw sewage, at his own expense, at
the place provided therefor at the sewage disposal plant maintained by the
city. It shall be unlawful, however, to dump raw sewage at the sewage
disposal plant which contains prohibited substances not permitted or allowed
to flow in the sanitary sewer system of the city under section 7-4-6 of this
chapter.



(B)   The fee for such dumping of raw sewage shall be one dollar ($1.00)
per one hundred (100) gallons.



(C)   In addition to other penalties, any person who violates this section
by dumping raw sewage containing prohibited substances as defined in said
section 7-4-6 of this chapter shall not be permitted to use the sanitary
sewer system and sewage disposal plant of the city, or any part thereof,
until satisfactory bond and surety shall be given to the city that such
violation shall not be repeated. (Ord. 75-271, 8-4-1975; amd. Ord. 77-336,
2-7-1977)



7-4-17: PENALTIES:



(A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
except sections 7-4-2, 7-4-3,7-4-4, 7-4-5, 7-4-6 and 7-4-8 of this chapter
shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this
chapter.



(B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection (A) of this section or any person who shall
violate any other sections of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.



(C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation.



(D)   In addition to other penalties, any person who violates section
7-4-5, 7-4-6, or 7-4-7 of this chapter shall not be permitted to use the
sanitary sewer system of the city, or any part thereof, until satisfactory
bond and surety shall be given to the city that such violation shall not be
repeated; and such person shall be disconnected from the sanitary sewer
system of the city until the condition causing the violation has been
remedied in accordance with the terms of sections 7-4-5, 7-4-6 and 7-4-7 of
this chapter. (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



7-4-18: VALIDITY:



If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall be held
to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not
affect any of the remaining provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 77-336,
2-7-1977)



7-4-19: EFFECTIVE DATE:



This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as provided by law. (Ord. 77-336, 2-7-1977)



 


Notes

101 
65 ILCS 5/11-141-7.

102 
65 ILCS 5/11-42-10.

1 
See section 7-4-14 of this chapter.

104 
See section 7-4-14 of this chapter.

105 
See section 7-4-13 of this chapter.



CHAPTER 5
WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT



7-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:



(A)   Enactment: Pursuant to the requirements of the clean water act
amendments 106 and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Illinois
environmental protection act of 1970, as amended 107 , and in accordance with
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-139-1 et seq., this chapter is hereby
enacted by the city council. The city council is hereafter referred to as
"the publicly owned treatment works" or as "the POTW".



(B)   Purpose And Policy: This chapter regulates the use of sewers,
private wastewater disposal, and the discharge of wastewater into the POTW
wastewater system. This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for
discharges into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the POTW.
The objectives of this chapter are to:



1. Regulate private wastewater disposal systems;



2. Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW wastewater system
that will interfere with the operation of the POTW wastewater system,
including interference with its use or disposal of municipal sludge;



3. Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW wastewater system
which will pass through the treatment works or otherwise be incompatible with
such works; and



4. Improve opportunities to recycle and reclaim municipal and industrial
wastewaters and sludges.



(C)   Jurisdiction: This chapter shall apply to the POTW and to persons
outside the POTW who are, by contract or agreement with the POTW, users of
the POTW.



(D)   Right Of Revision: The POTW reserves the right to establish by
ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
POTW.



(E)   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the
superintendent of the POTW shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-2: ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS:



(A)   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings:




BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand





CFR   Code of federal regulations





COD   Chemical oxygen demand





FOG   Fats, oils and grease





IEPA   Illinois environmental protection agency





mg/l   Milligrams per liter





NCPS   National categorical pretreatment standards





NPDES   National pollutant discharge elimination system





POTW   Publicly owned treatment works





PSES   Pretreatment standards for existing sources





PSNS   Pretreatment standards for new sources





RCRA   Resource conservation and recovery act





SIC   Standard industrial classification





SWDA   Solid waste disposal act 108





TSS   Total suspended solids





TTO   Total toxic organics





USC   United States code





USEPA   United States environmental protection agency




(B)   Definitions:



A: As in "cyanide-A" means amenable to alkaline chlorination.



ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water
act, as amended 109 .



AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER: 1. Either:



(a) A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president, if
the industrial user is a corporation.



(b) A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a partnership
or proprietorship, respectively.



(c) A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above.



2. A person is a duly authorized representative only if the authorization is
made in writing to the POTW by a person described above.



BASELINE REPORT: That report required by 40 CFR section 403.12(b)(1-7).



BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures as described in "Standard Methods".



CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant (standard potassium dichromate solution) under standard laboratory
procedures as described in "Standard Methods".



COMBINED WASTE STREAM FORMULA: The formula as found in 40 CFR section
406.6(e).



COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, FOG,
suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform bacteria.



COMPOSITE SAMPLE: A sample of wastewater based on a flow proportional or time
proportional method.



CONSISTENT POTW TREATMENT WORKS REMOVAL, POLLUTANT REMOVAL OR REMOVAL:
Reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature or
concentration of a pollutant in the influent of the POTW to a less
incompatible or concentrated state in the effluent. Consistent POTW removal
efficiency shall be the difference between the average concentration of the
pollutant in the influent of the treatment plant and the average
concentration of the pollutant in the effluent of the treatment plant divided
by the average concentration of the pollutant in the influent.



COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.



DIRECTOR: The director of IEPA.



EXISTING SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge, which is not a new source.



FATS, OIL OR GREASE (FOG): Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes
and any other material that is extracted by trichlorotrifluoroethane solvent.



FECAL COLIFORM: Any number of organisms common to intestinal tract of man and
animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.



FLOW: Volume of wastewater per unit of time.



GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of
produce.



GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.



INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.



INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into the POTW
from any nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
act.



INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge, including, but not limited
to, manufacturing, commercial or process facility or other facility engaged
in the purchase or sale of goods, transaction of business or who otherwise
renders services to the public.



INTERFERENCE: An inhibition or disruption of the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal which is a
cause of or significantly contributes to either a violation of any
requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation) or to the prevention of sewage sludge
use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with the following statutory
provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or more stringent
state or local regulations: section 405 of the clean water act, the solid
waste disposal act (SWDA) (including title II, more commonly referred to as
the "Resource Conservation and Recovery Act" [RCRA] and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant
to subtitle D of the SWDA), the clean air act, and the toxic substances
control act.



An industrial user significantly contributes to such a permit violation or
prevention of sludge use or disposal in accordance with above cited
authorities whenever such user:



1. Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by permit
with the POTW or by federal, state or local law;



2. Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature or
constituents from the user's average discharge; or



3. Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would result in a POTW permit violation
or prevent sewage sludge use or disposal in accordance with the above cited
authorities as they apply to the POTW's selected method of sludge management.



NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any pretreatment standard
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants which may be discharged
to a POTW by industrial users in specific industrial subcategories as
established in regulations promulgated from time to time by the USEPA in 40
CFR chapter I, subchapter N.



NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES PERMIT): A
permit issued under the national pollutant discharge elimination system for
discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States
pursuant to the act.



NEW SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section.



If national categorical pretreatment standards are not applicable, "new
source" shall mean any building, structure, facility or installation from
which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the remodeling (if that
remodeling could result in the assigning by the POTW of a new standard
industrial classification code) or the construction of which commences after
the effective date of this chapter.



POTW TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide
treatment (including recycling and reclamation) of municipal sewage and
industrial waste.



PASS THROUGH: The discharge of pollutants through the POTW into navigable
waters in quantities or concentrations which are a cause of or significantly
contribute to a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation). An
industrial user significantly contributes to such permit violation where it:



1. Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by permit
and with the POTW or by federal, state or local law;



2. Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature and
constituents from the user's average discharge;



3. Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would result in a permit violation; or



4. Knows or has reason to know that the POTW is, for any reason, violating
its final effluent limitations in its permit and that such industrial user's
discharge either alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
increases the magnitude or duration of the POTW's violations.



PERMITTED WASTEWATER HAULER VEHICLE: A vehicle used for hauling wastewater,
which has been granted a permit under the requirements of this chapter.



PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.



pH: The intensity of the acid or base condition of a solution, calculated by
taking the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.



POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt or industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.



PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of the pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW.



PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user.



PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: For any specified pollutant, prohibitive discharge
standards as set forth in section 300.15, specific limitations on discharge
as set forth in section 300.110, the state pretreatment standards or the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standards, whichever standard is
most stringent.



PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works as defined by
section 212 of the act, owned by the city. This definition includes any
devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature that convey
wastewater to the POTW treatment plant regardless of ownership, but does not
include sewers, pipes and other conveyances not connected to the POTW
treatment plant. The term also means city of Flora, which has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment
works.



SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which is designed to carry sanitary and industrial
wastewater and to which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally
admitted.



SHALL AND MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.



SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user of the POTW's wastewater
disposal system who:



1. Has a discharge flow of two thousand (2,000) gallons or more per average
workday; or



2. Has a discharge flow greater than three-tenths of a percent (0.3%) of the
flow in the POTW's wastewater treatment system; or



3. Has in its wastewater incompatible pollutants as defined pursuant to
section 307 of the act or by state statutes, or by applicable federal or
state rules and regulations; or



4. Is found by the POTW, IEPA or USEPA to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the
wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent
quality or air emissions generated by the system; or



5. Is subject to any national categorical pretreatment standard.



SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION: A violation of this chapter which remains uncorrected
forty five (45) days after notification of such noncompliance; which is part
of a pattern of noncompliance over a twelve (12) month period; which involves
failure to accurately report noncompliance; or which resulted in the POTW
exercising its emergency authority under sections 500.115, 500.120 or 500.130.



SLUDGE: The settleable solids separated from the liquids during the
wastewater treatment processes.



SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given pollutant, as measured by a grab sample, exceeds more than five (5)
times the allowable concentrations as set forth in section 7-5-3 of this
chapter or any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with the POTW.



SUPERINTENDENT: The chief administrator of the POTW treatment works.



T: As in "cyanide-T" means total.



TOTAL SOLIDS: The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.



TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): Total suspended matter, expressed in milligrams
per liter, that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in
water, wastewater and other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtration
using a Reeve angel type 934A or 984H glass fiber filter disc as prescribed
in "Standard Methods".



TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS: The summation of all quantified values greater than one
one-hundredth milligram per liter (0.01 mg/l) for the toxic organics as
specified in the applicable regulation.



UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria set forth in 35 Illinois administrative code part 304 or water that
would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards set forth in
35 Illinois administrative code parts 302 and 303 and would not be benefited
by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities
provided.



UPSET: An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors
beyond the reasonable control of the industrial user. An upset does not
include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of
preventive maintenance or careless or improper operation.



USER: Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW treatment plant.



WASTEWATER: The combination of the liquid and water carrying wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions,
including polluted cooling water.



Sanitary Wastewater: The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.



Industrial Wastewater: A combination of liquid and water carried waste,
discharged from any industrial user including the wastewater from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.



WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: The document or documents allowing discharge to
the POTW issued to a user by the POTW in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.



WASTEWATER HAULER: Any person, partnership or corporation engaged in
transporting sanitary wastewater as a commercial venture.



WATERS OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through or border upon the state or any portion
thereof. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3: WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS:



7-5-3-1: USE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES:



(A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or discharge, or to
cause to be deposited or discharged, to any POTW treatment plant, any solid,
liquid or gaseous waste unless through a connection approved by the POTW.



(B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge wastewater, without a NPDES
permit, to any natural outlet within the POTW or in any area under its
jurisdiction. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3-2: PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARDS:



(A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
foundation drain water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage, cooling
waters or any other unpolluted water to any sanitary sewer.



(B)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the
operation or performance of the POTW or will pass through the POTW.



(C)   The following general prohibitions shall apply to all users of the
POTW whether or not a user is subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements. A user shall not contribute the following substances to the
POTW:



1. Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity
are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious or hazardous in any
other way to the POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two
(2) successive readings on a meter capable of reading LEL (lower explosive
limit) at a point at the nearest accessible point to the POTW in a sanitary
sewer, at the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW
be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading greater than ten
percent (10%). Materials for which discharge is prohibited under this
subsection include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, polychlorinated biphenyls, polybrominated
biphenyls, carbides, hydrides, stoddard solvents and sulfides.



2. Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction to the
flow in the POTW resulting in interference with the operation of the
wastewater treatment facilities, including, but not limited to, grease,
garbage with particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension,
animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings,
entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or
marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent
grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastics, tar, asphalt residues from
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or
polishing wastes, or tumbling and deburring stones.



3. Any wastewater which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case wastewater having a pH less than five (5.0), unless more
strictly limited elsewhere in this chapter.



4. Any wastewater containing incompatible pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, cause a violation of the water quality standards of the receiving
waters of the POTW, exceed the limitation set forth in a national categorical
pretreatment standard (when effective) or in section 7-5-3-3 of this chapter
or create a public nuisance.



5. Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either singly or
by interaction with other wastewaters are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into sewers for
their maintenance and repair.



6. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be
in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed under section 405 of the act; any criteria guidelines
or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the
RCRA, SWDA, the clean water act, the toxic substances control act, or state
regulations subtitle C part 391 applicable to the sludge management method
being used.



7. Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit or the
receiving water quality standards.



8. Any wastewater having a temperature at the point of discharge to the POTW
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting
in interference; in no case shall wastewater be introduced to the POTW which
exceeds forty degrees centigrade (40°C) (104°F) at the POTW treatment plant.



9. Any pollutants, including compatible pollutants released at a flow or
pollutant concentration which a user knows or has reason to know will cause
interference to the POTW or will pass through the POTW.



10. Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by state or
federal regulations.



11. Any wastewater which may contain more than one hundred (100.000) mg/l
concentration of fat, oil, grease (FOG) or trichlortrifluoroethane
extractable material.



12. Any wastewater containing BOD, total solids or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the sewage treatment plant; provided, however, that
a user may be permitted by specific, written agreement with the POTW, which
agreement to discharge such BOD or TSS may provide for special charges,
payments or provisions for treating and testing equipment.



13. Ammonia nitrogen in amounts that would cause a violation of the water
quality standards of the receiving waters of the POTW.



14. Any discharge exceeding the standards established in 35 Illinois
administrative code 307 from time to time.



15. Any slug discharged to the POTW.



(D)   Compliance with the provisions of this section shall be required on
the effective date of promulgation of this chapter. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3-3: SPECIFIC LIMITATIONS ON DISCHARGE:



(A)   Discharges from each separate discharge of a user, as measured under
the provisions of this chapter, shall not contain in excess of the following
concentrations based upon a twenty four (24) hour composite sample. Multiple
industrial wastewater discharges from a permitted facility may be combined in
a flow weighted manner to determine compliance with the following limitations
for a twenty four (24) hour composite sample.




   Pollutant   Maximum Concentration





Arsenic   52.42 mg/l





Barium   8.292 mg/l





Cadmium   0.12 mg/l





Chromium (total)   13.202 mg/l





Chromium (hexavalent)   2.435 mg/l





Copper   4.1 mg/l





Cyanide   0.334 mg/l





Iron (total)   9.65 mg/l





Lead   0.767 mg/l





Manganese   8.336 mg/l





Mercury   0.011 mg/l





Nickel   5.802 mg/l





Oils (hexane, soluble or equivalent)   100.000 mg/l





pH (permissible range, no averaging)   6.0-9.5 mg/l





Phenols    0.428 mg/l





Selenium   0.081 mg/l





Silver   0.43 mg/l





Zinc   4.605 mg/l




(B)   Compliance with the provisions of this section shall be required no
later than thirty (30) days after passage and publication of this chapter.
(Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3-4: INCORPORATION OF NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:



Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment standard for a
particular industrial user, the said standard shall, when effective,
immediately supersede the limitations and conditions imposed under this
chapter and said standards shall be complied with by all industrial users
subject to each of said national categorical pretreatment standards. (Ord.
85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3-5: FINAL NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:



(A)   Job shop and independent printed circuit board manufacturers
regulated by the electroplating point source category (40 CFR part 413, as
amended) have been given a compliance date of April 27, 1984. Integrated
electroplating facilities regulated by the electroplating point source
category, as amended, have been given a compliance date of June 30, 1984.



(B)   Industrial users regulated by the metal finishing point source
category (40 CFR part 433, as amended) have been given a compliance date of
February 15, 1986.



(C)   Industrial users regulated by the copper forming point source
category (40 CFR part 468, as amended) have been given a compliance date of
August 15, 1986.



(D)   Industrial users regulated by the inorganic chemicals (phase I)
point source category (40 CFR part 415, as amended) have been given a
compliance date of August 12, 1985.



(E)   Industrial users regulated by the porcelain enameling point source
category (40 CFR part 466, as amended) have been given a compliance date of
November 25, 1985.



(F)   Industrial users regulated by the pulp, paper and paperboard point
source category (40 CFR parts 430 and 431, as amended) have been given a
compliance date of July 1, 1984.



(G)   Industrial users regulated by the textile mills point source
category (40 CFR part 410, as amended) have been given a compliance date of
September 2, 1985.



(H)   Industrial users regulated by the timber products point category (40
CFR part 429, as amended) have been given a compliance date of January 26,
1984.



(I)   Industrial users regulated by the coiling coating (phase I) point
source category (40 CFR part 465, as amended) have been given a compliance
date of December 1, 1985.



(J)   Industrial users regulated by the leather tanning and finishing
point source category (40 CFR part 425, as amended) have been given a
compliance date of November 25, 1985.



(K)   Industrial users regulated by the coil coating (phase II) point
source category (40 CFR part 465, as amended) have been given a compliance
date of November 17, 1986.



(L)   Industrial users regulated by the pharmaceutical manufacturing point
source category (40 CFR part 439, as amended) have been given a compliance
date of October 27, 1986.



(M)   Industrial users regulated by the electrical and electronic
components point source category (40 CFR part 469, as amended) have been
given a compliance date for subpart A - semiconductors and subpart B -
electronic crystal manufacturing of July 1, 1984 for total toxic organics.
Subpart B - electronic crystal manufacturing have been given a compliance
date of November 8, 1985 for arsenic. Subpart C - cathode ray tube have been
given a compliance date of July 14, 1987 for control of specified toxic
metals, fluoride and total toxic organics.



(N)   Industrial users regulated by the aluminum forming point source
category (40 CFR part 467, as amended) have been given a compliance date of
October 24, 1986.



(O)   Industrial users regulated by the iron and steel manufacturing point
source category (40 CFR part 420, as amended) have been given a compliance
date of July 10, 1985.



(P)   Industrial users regulated by the petroleum refining point source
category (40 CFR part 419, as amended) have been given a compliance date of
December 1, 1985.



(Q)   Industrial users regulated by the steam electric power plants point
source category (40 CFR parts 125 and 423, as amended) have been given a
compliance date of July 1, 1984.



(R)   Industrial users regulated by the battery manufacturing point source
category (40 CFR part 461, as amended) have been given a compliance date of
March 9, 1987.



(S)   Industrial users regulated by the inorganic chemicals (phase II)
point source category (40 CFR part 415, as amended) have been given a
compliance date for subpart A, B, L, AL, AR, BA and BC of July 20, 1980; for
subpart AJ, AU, BL, BM, BN and BO of August 22, 1987; and, for all subparts
not listed of June 29, 1985.



(T)   Industrial users regulated by the nonferrous metal manufacturing
(phase I) point source category (40 CFR part 421, as amended) have been given
a compliance date of March 9, 1987.



(U)   Industrial users regulated by the plastics molding and forming point
source category (40 CFR part 455, as amended) have been given a compliance
date of January 30, 1988.



(V)   The USEPA will promulgate new categorical pretreatment standards
from time to time. This chapter shall be amended to include any new standards
applicable to this POTW. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3-6: PRETREATMENT:



All industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater pretreatment as
required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
applicable pretreatment requirements and standards within the time
limitations as specified by appropriate statutes, regulations and this
chapter. National categorical pretreatment standards shall be added to this
chapter as amendments. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a
level acceptable to the POTW shall be provided, properly operated and
maintained at the user's expense. All industrial users shall obtain all
necessary construction operating permits from the IEPA. Such pretreatment
facilities shall be under the control and direction of an IEPA certified
wastewater treatment operator. Any subsequent significant changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
accepted by the POTW prior to the industrial user's initiation of the
changes. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3-7: PROHIBITION OF IMPROPER DILUTION:



No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
pretreatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
national categorical pretreatment standards (NCPS) when effective, or in any
other pollutant specific limitations developed by the POTW. (Ord. 85-715,
6-17-1985)



7-5-3-8: SPILL CONTAINMENT:



(A)   Each industrial user having the ability to cause interference with
the POTW treatment plant or to violate the regulatory provisions of this
chapter shall provide protection from accidental discharge to the POTW of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter.
Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense.



(B)   All industrial users whose wastewater includes or could include
compatible or incompatible pollutants in amounts great enough to cause
interference with the POTW must have detailed plans on file at the POTW
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide protection from
accidental discharge. All industrial users shall complete construction of
said facilities by ninety (90) days after issuance of their wastewater
discharge permit. No industrial user who begins contributing to or could
contribute such pollutants to the POTW after the effective date of this
chapter shall be permitted to introduce such pollutants into the POTW until
accidental discharge facilities and procedures, as appropriate, have been
approved by the POTW and installed by the industrial user. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the
industrial user from the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary
to meet the requirements of this chapter.



(C)   In the case of an accidental or deliberate discharge of compatible
or incompatible pollutants which may cause interference at the POTW or will
pass through the POTW or violate requirements of this chapter, it shall be
the responsibility of the industrial user to immediately telephone and notify
the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include name of caller,
location and time of discharge, type of wastewater, concentration and volume.



(D)   Within fifteen (15) days following such an accidental or deliberate
discharge, the industrial user shall submit to the POTW a detailed written
report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Follow up reports may be
required by the POTW as needed. Such report, or reports, shall not relieve
the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may
be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage
to person or property; nor shall such report relieve the user of any fines,
civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or
otherwise. Failure to report accidental or deliberate discharges may, in
addition to any other remedies available to the POTW, result in the
revocation of the discharger's wastewater discharge permit.



(E)   The industrial user shall control production or all discharges to
the extent necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations
upon reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility
is restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This
requirement includes the situation where, among other things, the primary
source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.



(F)   A notice in English and the language of common use shall be
permanently posted on the industrial user's bulletin board or other prominent
place advising employees who to call in the event of an accidental or illegal
discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who are in a position to
cause, discover or observe such discharge are advised of the emergency
notification procedures. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-3-9: WASTEWATER HAULERS:



(A)   Wastewater haulers shall discharge all sanitary wastes at designated
wastewater hauler dumping station.



(B)   Wastewater haulers shall have a valid wastewater hauler discharge
permit before discharging wastes at the POTW. Each permitted wastewater
hauling vehicle shall prominently display a number issued by the POTW on both
doors of the vehicle cab. Such numbers shall be removable only by
destruction. Decals for this purpose will be provided at the POTW to each
wastewater hauler.



(C)   Each wastewater hauling vehicle shall meet the following conditions
before permits will be issued under subsection (B) of this section.



1. Until the POTW provides scales for weighing wastewater hauling vehicle,
each truck tank shall have a sight glass calibrated in one hundred (100)
gallon increments.



2. Each vehicle shall be equipped to use the quick disconnect couplers at the
wastewater hauler dumping station.



(D)   Representative samples of wastewater from both nonindustrial users
and industrial users discharged by a wastewater hauler shall comply with the
provisions of this section 7-5-3.



(E)   Each load delivered to the wastewater dumping station must have a
wastewater hauler manifest properly filled out by the scale operator on duty
and signed by the wastewater hauler.



(F)   All procedures for discharging, for cleanliness and for general
sanitary operation on the POTW property as described by the POTW shall be
strictly adhered to by all wastewater haulers delivering wastewater to the
POTW dumping station.



(G)   The source or sources of all liquid wastes being hauled to the POTW
treatment plant shall be properly documented using the POTW manifest system.



(H)   Wastewater from a nonindustrial user shall not be mixed with
wastewater from an industrial user. Vehicles hauling wastewater from an
industrial user shall not be used to haul wastewater from a nonindustrial
user for disposal at the POTW.



(I)   In addition to remedies available to the POTW set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, failure of a wastewater hauler to comply with the provisions of
this section shall be grounds for revocation of the hauler's discharge permit
by the POTW. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-4: DISCHARGE PERMITS:



7-5-4-1: PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGES WITHOUT PERMIT:



It shall be unlawful for any significant user to discharge wastewater to the
POTW without a permit, or contrary to the conditions of a permit, issued by
the POTW in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 85-715,
6-17-1985)



7-5-4-2: PERMITS:



(A)   Wastewater Discharge Permit: All significant industrial users
proposing to connect to or to contribute to the POTW shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
All significant industrial users which are existing sources connected to or
contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of this chapter. All
industrial users which become significant industrial users after promulgation
of this chapter shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within one
hundred eighty (180) days after becoming a significant industrial user. (The
latter includes, but is not limited to, industrial users regulated by a newly
promulgated national categorical pretreatment standard.)



(B)   Wastewater Discharge Permit Application:



1. Significant industrial users required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit shall complete and file with the POTW an application in a form to be
prescribed and furnished by the POTW and accompanied by a fee to be
determined by the POTW.



2. Existing significant industrial users shall apply for a wastewater
discharge permit within ninety (90) days after the effective date of this
chapter. Proposed significant industrial users which are new sources shall
apply at least ninety (90) days prior to discharging to the POTW. In case of
conflict between application deadlines for significant industrial users in
subsection (A) of this section and this subsection (B)2, the stricter
deadline shall apply.



3. In support of the application, the significant industrial user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:



(a) Name, address and location;



(b) SIC number according to the "Standard Classification Manual", bureau of
the budget, 1972, as amended;



(c) Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not limited
to, those set forth in section 7-5-3 of this chapter as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with standard methods;



(d) Time and duration of discharge;



(e) Average and maximum wastewater flow rates, including monthly and seasonal
variations, if any;



(f) Site plans showing all pipe sizes, manholes and location of sanitary and
storm sewers leaving the building or premises, together with all connections
to lateral sanitary and storm sewers;



(g) Total number of employees and hours of operation of a plant;



(h) Proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system and the name
of the IEPA certified pretreatment operator;



(i) Name of the authorized representative of the significant industrial user;



(j) Significant industrial user's source of intake water together with the
types of usage and disposal sources of water and the estimated volumes in
each category.



(k) If additional significant industrial user operation and maintenance or
pretreatment techniques or installations will be required to meet
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the significant
industrial user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
under section 7-5-3 of this chapter.



(l) Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW to be necessary to
evaluate the permit application.



(C)   Review Of Wastewater Discharge Permit Applications: The POTW will
evaluate the data furnished by the significant industrial user and may
require additional information. After evaluation of the data furnished, the
POTW will issue a wastewater discharge permit. No temporary permit will be
issued by the POTW except as set forth in subsection (G) of this section.



(D)   Permit Conditions: Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
regulations, user charges and fees established by the POTW. Wastewater
discharge permits shall contain the following:



1. The wastewater discharge permit shall include the limits on daily maximum
and average pollutant concentrations from the applicable pretreatment
standard (which includes federal, state and local limits), whichever is more
stringent.



2. Limits on maximum and average flow rate and the time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization for each separate discharge
of a user.



3. Requirements for installation and operation of inspection, sampling and
monitoring facilities.



4. Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule.



5. Compliance schedule, if necessary.



6. Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports.



7. Requirements to retain for a minimum of three (3) years any records of
monitoring activities and results relating to wastewater discharge and for
affording the POTW access to said records.



8. Requirements for advance notification to the POTW of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or
character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater
treatment system pursuant to the terms of subsection (E) of this section.



9. Requirements for notification of slug discharges as defined in subsection
7-5-2(B) of this chapter.



10. Requirements for reporting pretreatment sludge disposal practices.



11. Requirements that permittee allow the POTW or its representatives ready
access upon presentation of credentials at reasonable times to all parts of
its premises in which a discharge source or treatment system is located or in
which records required by this chapter are kept for the purpose of
inspection, sampling, examination and photocopying of said records and for
the performance of any of their duties.



12. Requirements that the permittee provide other information to the POTW
from time to time as may reasonably be required.



13. Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW to ensure compliance
with this chapter, and pretreatment requirements and standards.



(E)   Change In Conditions: In the event the type, quality or volume of
wastewater from the property for which a wastewater permit was previously
granted is expected to materially and substantially change as reasonably
determined by the permittee or POTW, the permittee previously granted such
permit shall give thirty (30) days' notice in writing to the POTW and shall
make a new application to the POTW prior to said change, in the same manner
and form as originally made, provided that information previously submitted
and unchanged need not be resubmitted by permittee. No permittee shall
materially and substantially change the type, quality or volume of its
wastewater beyond that allowed by its permit without prior approval of the
POTW.



(F)   Duration: Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years. The permittee shall file
an application for renewal of its permit at least ninety (90) days prior to
expiration of the user's permit. The industrial user shall apply, on a form
provided by the POTW, for reissuance of the permit.



(G)   Modification: The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject
to modification by the POTW during the terms of the permit as limitations or
requirements as identified in section 7-5-3 of this chapter are modified or
other just cause exists. Where the national categorical pretreatment
standards are modified by a removal allowance (40 CFR section 403.7) or the
combined waste stream formula (40 CFR section 403.6(e)) or net/gross
calculations (40 CFR section 403.15) or fundamentally different factor
variance for nontoxics (40 CFR section 403.13), of the general pretreatment
regulations, the limits as modified shall be made a part of the wastewater
discharge permit and shall be adjusted consistent with USEPA guidelines and
regulations. The significant industrial user shall be informed of any
proposed changes in its permit at least thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of change. Where any changes are made in the significant
industrial user's permit, a reasonable time shall be given to achieve
compliance.



(H)   Transfer: Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
significant industrial user for the process activity specified in the permit.
A wastewater discharge permit shall not be assigned, transferred or sold to a
new owner or new user in different premises or to a new or changed operation
in the same or different premises without the approval of the POTW. If the
premises are sold or otherwise transferred by the permittee to a new owner
who will maintain the operation in the same premises, then the permit held by
the seller shall be reissued by the POTW to the new owner as a temporary
permit; provided that the new owner shall immediately apply for a new permit
in accordance with this chapter; and further provided that the temporary
permit shall only be effective for ninety (90) days after the date of sale or
transfer. The POTW shall have the same remedies for violation of temporary
permits as it has for violation of other discharge permits. (Ord. 85-715,
6-17-1985)



7-5-4-3: DENIAL OF PERMIT AND APPEAL PROCEDURE:



(A)   No wastewater discharge permit shall be issued by the POTW to any
person or industrial user whose discharge of material to sewers, whether
shown upon his application or determined after inspection and testing
conducted by the POTW, is not in conformity with POTW ordinances and
regulations or whose application is incomplete or does not comply with the
requirements of subsection 7-5-4-2(B) of this chapter. The POTW shall state
the reason or reasons for denial in writing, which shall be mailed or
personally delivered to the applicant within ten (10) days after denial.



(B)   If the application is denied by the POTW, the applicant may obtain
review of the denial by the city council; provided that the applicant shall
give written notice of this request within thirty (30) days after receipt of
such denial. The city council shall review the permit application, the
written denial and such other evidence and matters as the applicant and POTW
superintendent shall present. The decision of the city council shall be
final. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-4-4: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEES:



(A)   Base Line Report (For Categorical Dischargers Only):



1. Industrial users subject to national categorical pretreatment standards
shall submit base line reports to the POTW in a form prescribed and furnished
by the POTW.



2. Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, or one hundred eighty (180) days
after a final administrative decision has been made upon a categorical
determination submission in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.6(a)(4),
whichever is later, industrial users which are existing sources subject to
such national categorical pretreatment standards and currently discharging to
the POTW shall submit a properly completed base line report.



3. New sources, when subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard,
shall submit a base line report no later than one hundred eighty (180) days
after discharging to the POTW.



4. In support of the base line report, the industrial user shall submit, in
units and terms specified in the application, the following information:



(a) Name and address of the facility including the name of the operator and
owners.



(b) List of any environmental control permits held by or for the facility.



(c) Brief description of the nature, average rate of production, and standard
industrial classification of the operation(s) carried out by such user. This
description shall include a schematic process diagram indicating points of
discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes.



(d) Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in
gallons per day, to the POTW from each of the following:



(1) Regulated process streams; and



(2) Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream
formula of 40 CFR section 403.6(e).



(e) The industrial user shall identify the national categorical pretreatment
standards applicable to each regulated process, and shall:



(1) Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Both daily maximum and average concentration shall be reported. The
sample shall be representative of daily operations.



(2) Where feasible, obtain samples through the flow proportional composite
sampling techniques specified in the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. Where composite sampling is not feasible, a grab
sample is acceptable.



(3) Sample based on the flow of the sampled stream, as follows (composite
samples are required where feasible):



A. Where the flow of the stream being sampled is less than or equal to nine
hundred fifty thousand (950,000) liters/day (approximately 250,000 gpd), the
industrial user shall take a minimum of three (3) samples within a two (2)
week period.



B. Where the flow of the stream being sampled is greater than nine hundred
fifty thousand (950,000) liters/day (approximately 250,000 gpd), the
industrial user shall take a minimum of six (6) samples within a two (2) week
period.



(4) Take the samples immediately downstream from pretreatment facilities if
such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process if no
pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, in order to evaluate compliance with the
national categorical pretreatment standards, the industrial user shall
measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined
waste stream formula of 40 CFR section 403.6(e). Where an alternate
concentration has been calculated in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.6(e),
this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to the POTW.



(5) Submit, only with POTW authorization, a base line report which utilizes
only historical data, so long as the data provides information sufficient to
determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.



(6) Provide, for each report, the time, date and place of sampling and
methods of analysis and certification that such sampling and analysis is
representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the
POTW.



(f) The industrial user shall provide a statement, reviewed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional indicating whether national categorical pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis, and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance measures (O&M) or additional pretreatment is required for the
industrial user to meet the national categorical pretreatment standards.



(g) If additional pretreatment or O&M will be required to meet the national
categorical pretreatment standards, the industrial user will provide the
shortest schedule which will provide such additional pretreatment or O&M. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.



(1) Where the industrial user's national categorical pretreatment standard
has been modified by a removal allowance (40 CFR section 403.7) or the
combined waste stream formula (40 CFR section 403.6(e)) or net/gross
calculations (40 CFR section 403.15), at the time the industrial user submits
a base line report, the information required in subsection (A)4(f) of this
section and this subsection (A)4(g) shall pertain to the modified limits.



(2) If the national categorical pretreatment standard for the industrial user
is modified after the base line report is submitted, the industrial user
shall make any necessary amendments to information provided as a response to
subsection (A)4(f) of this section and this subsection (A)4(g), and submit
them to the POTW within sixty (60) days after the modified limit is approved.



(h) The following conditions shall apply to any schedule submitted in
response to subsection (A)4(g) of this section:



(1) The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards (e.g.,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans,
executing contract for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, etc.).



(2) No increment referred to in subsection (A)4(h)(1) of this section shall
exceed nine (9) months.



(3) Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects
to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps
being taken by the industrial user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the POTW.



(4) Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the POTW.



(B)   Compliance Date Report: Within ninety (90) days following the date
for final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards, or in the case
of a new source, within such time as specified in its wastewater discharge
permit, but in any case no later than one year following commencement of the
introduction by the new source of wastewater into the POTW, any industrial
user subject to pretreatment standards shall submit to the POTW a report, on
forms provided by the POTW, indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user's facility which are limits by such pretreatment
standards. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional
user operation and maintenance or pretreatment techniques or installations
are necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user and certified to by a qualified
professional.



(C)   Periodic Compliance Reports For All Significant Industrial Users:



1. All significant industrial users subject to an applicable pretreatment
standard, after the compliance date of such applicable pretreatment standard,
or in the case of a new source, after discharge of wastewater to the POTW
begins, shall submit to the POTW during the months of June and December for
the preceding two (2) calendar quarters unless required more frequently in
the pretreatment standard or by the POTW or IEPA, a certified report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by such applicable pretreatment standards. In addition, this
report shall include a record of measured or estimated average and maximum
daily flows for the reporting period.



2. At the discretion of the POTW, the wastewater discharge permittee shall
sample, analyze and report to the POTW pollutants set forth in its wastewater
discharge permit.



3. At the discretion of the POTW and in consideration of such factors as a
local high or low flow rate, holidays, budget cycles, the POTW may agree to
alter the months during which the above reports are submitted. (Ord. 85-715,
6-17-1985)



7-5-4-5: MONITORING FACILITIES:



(A)   Significant industrial users shall provide and operate at the
significant industrial user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow
inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer or internal
drainage systems. The monitoring facility will normally be situated on the
user's premises, but the POTW may, when such a location would be impractical
and cause undue hardship to the user, allow the facility to be constructed in
the public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be
obstructed by landscaping, parked vehicles or other vehicles, or other
activities of the user.



(B)   Where required by the POTW, additional control manholes or sampling
chambers shall be provided at the end of each industrial process within an
industrial user's facility suitable for the determination of compliance with
pretreatment standards.



(C)   Whenever required by a wastewater discharge permit, any significant
industrial user shall install a large manhole or sampling chamber for each
separate discharge in the building sewer in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the POTW, installed and maintained at all times at
the user's expense, which shall have ample room in each sampling chamber to
permit the POTW to take accurate composite samples for analysis. The chamber
shall be safely, easily and independently accessible to authorized
representatives of the POTW at any time.



1. Each sampling chamber shall contain a Palmer-Bowlus flume unless a weir or
similar device is approved by the POTW with a recording and totalizing
register for measurement of the liquid quantity; or at the discretion of the
POTW, the metered water supply to the industrial plant may be used as the
liquid quantity where it is substantiated to the POTW that the metered water
supply and waste quantities are approximately the same, or where a measurable
adjustment agreed to by the POTW is made in the metered water supply to
determine the liquid waste quantity.



2. When required, samples shall be taken every hour or half hour, as
determined by the POTW and properly refrigerated and preserved in accordance
with standard methods and shall be composited in proportion to the flow for a
representative twenty four (24) hour sample. Such sampling shall be done as
prescribed by the user's wastewater discharge permit.



3. The sampling chamber, metering device and documentation of the frequency
of sampling, sampling methods and analyses of samples shall be subject, at
any reasonable time, to inspection and verification by the POTW.



(D)   Whenever required by a wastewater discharge permit, the permittee
shall pay the costs of sampling of its discharge and the costs of analyses of
its samples, whether or not the sampling and analyses are done by the
permittee or by the POTW.



(E)   All measurements, tests and analyses to which reference is made in
this chapter shall be determined and performed in accordance with the
procedures established by the administrator of the United States
environmental protection agency (hereinafter "Administrator") pursuant to
section 304(g) of the act and contained in 40 CFR 136 and amendments thereto
or with any other test procedures approved by the administrator. Sampling
shall be performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the
administrator. Where 40 CFR part 136 does not include sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutants in question, or where the administrator
determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed using validated analytical methods or any other sampling and
analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the POTW and other
parties, approved by the administrator. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-4-6: INSPECTION, SAMPLING AND RECORDS KEEPING:



(A)   The POTW may inspect the facilities of all industrial users to
ascertain whether the purposes of this chapter are being met and if all
requirements of this chapter are being complied with. Persons or occupants of
premises in which a discharge source or treatment system is located or in
which records are kept shall allow the POTW or its representative ready
access upon presentation of credentials at reasonable times to all parts of
said premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
photocopying of records required to be kept by this chapter, and in the
performance of any of their duties. The POTW shall have the right to set up
on the industrial user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling, monitoring and metering operations. Where an industrial user has
security measures in force which would require suitable identification
necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation
of suitable identification, personnel from the POTW shall be permitted to
enter immediately for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. Such arrangements shall be made by all industrial users
with their security guards within thirty (30) days of the passage of this
chapter.



(B)   Industrial users and the POTW shall maintain records of all
information resulting from any monitoring activities required by this chapter
and shall include:



1. The date, exact place, method and time of sampling and the names of the
person or persons taking the samples;



2. The dates analyses were performed;



3. Who performed the analyses;



4. The analytical techniques/methods used; and



5. The results of such analyses.



(C)   The POTW and industrial users shall maintain such records for a
minimum of three (3) years. This period of retention shall be extended during
the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants
by the industrial user or operation of the POTW pretreatment program or when
requested by the regional administrator or the director of IEPA. (Ord.
85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-4-7: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:



(A)   Information and data relating to an industrial user obtained from
reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs
and from inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental
agencies without restriction unless the industrial user specifically requests
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the POTW that the release
of such information would divulge information, processes of methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the industrial user.



(B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, and until such
time as the POTW determines that the requested information is not entitled to
confidential treatment, the portions of a report which might disclose trade
secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the
public, but shall be made available upon written request to governmental
agencies for uses related to this chapter, the national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) permit, and for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person or
industrial user furnishing the report.



(C)   Information and data provided to the POTW which is effluent data
shall be available to the public without restriction.



(D)   Information claimed by an industrial user to be confidential and
which is not effluent data shall not be transmitted to the general public by
the POTW until and unless a thirty (30) day notification is given to the
industrial user.



(E)   The POTW shall implement measures to prevent the negligent release
of confidential information; however, neither the POTW nor its employees
shall be held legally responsible for release of information if they have
acted in good faith. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-5: COMPULSORY COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES:



(A)   Notice Of Violation And Compliance Meeting: Should a violation of
this chapter by an industrial user occur, whether or not a significant
industrial user, the POTW shall notify the offending user, in writing,
through a "notice of violation" as to the particulars of such violation or
violations and set a time and place for a meeting (hereinafter called a
"compliance meeting") to be attended by representatives of the POTW and the
industrial user. The purpose of such a meeting shall be to establish such
procedures, investigations, studies and compliance measures as the POTW deems
necessary and desirable to control and prevent violation of this chapter. The
industrial user shall cooperate fully with the POTW in making such
investigations and studies.



(B)   Order:



1. Following the completion of any procedures, investigations or studies as
described in subsection (A) of this section, the POTW may issue an order
which may:



(a) Require compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;



(b) Control the contribution to the POTW to ensure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements;



(c) Require:



(1) The development of a compliance schedule for the installation of
technology required to meet applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements; and



(2) The submission of all notices and self-monitoring reports as are
necessary to assess and assure compliance by industrial users with
pretreatment standards and requirements, including, but not limited to, the
reports required by 40 CFR section 403.12.



2. If the POTW has sufficient information at the time of the compliance
meeting to determine necessary and desirable compliance measures, it may, at
the time of the compliance meeting, issue an order directing and requiring
the industrial user to take such action, including pretreatment, without
further investigation or study.



3. Failure to comply with the order of the POTW shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter and may be grounds for revocation of the industrial user's
wastewater discharge permit and grounds for such actions as may be authorized
for violation of this chapter. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-6: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:



(A)   Conditions For Revocation Or Suspension: Any significant industrial
user who violates this chapter, an order issued pursuant to subsection
7-5-5(B) of this chapter, the Illinois environmental protection act or the
federal act or regulations promulgated under either act, or does any of the
following, is subject to having its wastewater permit revoked or suspended in
accordance with the procedures of this section:



1. Fails to fully and accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its wastewater discharge as determined by the industrial
user's or POTW's analysis;



2. Fails to fully and accurately report significant changes in process
activity which could affect its wastewater discharge or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;



3. Refuses reasonable access to the industrial user's premises by POTW
representatives for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;



4. Tampers with, disrupts or destroys POTW equipment;



5. Fails to report an accidental discharge of a pollutant;



6. Fails to report an upset of the industrial user's treatment facilities; or



7. Violates any condition of the wastewater discharge permit.



(B)   Procedures For Revocation Or Suspension:



1. The POTW may order any industrial user who causes or allows any action
which is subject to revocation or suspension under subsection (A) of this
section to show cause before the city council why its wastewater discharge
permit should not be revoked or suspended. A notice shall be served on the
industrial user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the
city council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be
taken, the proposed action and directing the industrial user to show cause
before the city council why its wastewater discharge permit should not be
revoked or suspended. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or
by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten (10)
days before the hearing. Services may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation.



2. The city council may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
may designate any of its members or its attorney to:



(a) Issue in the name of the city council notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;



(b) Take the evidence;



(c) Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including transcripts and
other evidence, together with recommendations to the city council for action
thereon.



3. At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically or by tape recording. The transcript
of said hearing will be made available to any member of the public or any
party to the hearing upon payment of the usual copying charges therefor.



4. After the city council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to
the industrial user responsible for the discharge directing either: a) that
the wastewater discharge permit be revoked or suspended and the service be
disconnected; or b) that following a specified time the wastewater discharge
permit shall be revoked or suspended and sewer service discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances have
been installed and operated properly to comply with the wastewater discharge
permit; or c) direct the user to cease the unauthorized discharge effective
after a specified period of time; or d) that such other action as deemed
necessary by the city council to abate the discharge be done by the
industrial user. Further orders and directives as are necessary may be issued.



5. Following an order of revocation or suspension of its wastewater discharge
permit, the industrial user shall cease discharging to the POTW in accordance
with the terms of said order. Failure to do so shall be prima facie evidence
of continuing harm to POTW and provide grounds for the granting of injunctive
relief or temporary restraining orders. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-7: ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE REGARDING DISCONNECTION:



The POTW may, upon discovering an ongoing or potential discharge to the POTW
which presents or may present a danger to the environment or which threatens
to interfere with the operation of the POTW, immediately issue an order to
the responsible industrial user to show cause before the city council why the
POTW should not disconnect service, revoke or suspend the industrial user's
wastewater discharge permit or seek injunctive relief to prohibit the
industrial user from making the discharge to the POTW. Procedures to be
followed by the city council in said show cause hearing shall be in
accordance with subsection 7-5-6(B) of this chapter. After said hearing, the
POTW may disconnect service, revoke or suspend the wastewater discharge
permit or seek injunctive relief to prohibit the industrial user from making
the discharge to the POTW. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-8: IMMEDIATE DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:



(A)   Conditions For Immediate Disconnection Of Service: Any industrial
user is subject to immediate disconnection of service under either of the
following conditions:



1. Whenever immediate disconnection is required to halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to the
superintendent to present an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare
of persons; or



2. Whenever the industrial user's wastewater discharge permit is revoked.



(B)   Procedures For Immediate Disconnection: Notwithstanding sections
7-5-5, 7-5-6 and 7-5-7 of this chapter, the superintendent shall have the
authority, after informal notice to the industrial user, to immediately and
effectively halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the POTW that
reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. When the superintendent determines that such an emergency
situation exists, he shall issue a verbal order (followed immediately by a
written order) to the industrial user stating the problem and requiring
immediate cessation of the discharge. The superintendent's actions may
include disconnection of wastewater collection service. The superintendent
shall obtain the concurrence of the POTW attorney before initiating action.
Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to, any of the
following: personal conversation between the industrial user and POTW
employees, telephone calls, letters, hand delivered messages or notices
posted at the industrial user's premises or point of discharge. (Ord. 85-715,
6-17-1985)



7-5-9: ELIMINATION OF DISCHARGE; REINSTATEMENT:



Any industrial user notified of a disconnection of wastewater treatment
service under section 7-5-7 or 7-5-8 of this chapter and/or revocation or
suspension of its wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the discharge. In the event of a failure of the industrial user to
comply voluntarily with the disconnection or revocation or suspension order,
the POTW shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
blockage or severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage
to the POTW system or danger to any person. If the superintendent exercises
his authority under subsection 7-5-8(A)1 of this chapter, the superintendent
shall reinstate the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the noncomplying discharge. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-10: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:



(A)   The POTW may institute a civil action for an injunction to restrain
violations of this chapter.



(B)   The POTW may, upon discovering an ongoing or potential discharge of
pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to present an imminent danger
to the health or welfare of persons, seek and obtain from the circuit court
of Clay County a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction to
halt or prohibit such discharge. Prior to the filing of such petition, the
discharger shall be given informal notice of the POTW intention to file such
action. Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to, any
of the following: personal conversation between the discharger and the POTW
employees, telephone calls, letters, hand delivered messages or notices
posted at the discharger's premises or point of discharge. Personal contact
between the POTW personnel and the discharger shall be attempted, but shall
not be condition precedent to POTW petitioning for and obtaining a temporary
restraining order. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-11: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:



(A)   In addition to remedies available to the POTW set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the POTW is fined by the state or USEPA for violation of the
POTW NPDES permit or violation of water quality standards as a result of
discharge of pollutants, then the fine, including all the POTW legal,
sampling analytical testing costs and any other related costs shall be
charged to the responsible industrial user. Such charge shall be in addition
to, and not in lieu of, any other remedies the POTW may have under this
chapter, statutes, regulations, at law or in equity.



(B)   If the discharge from any industrial user causes a deposit,
obstruction or damage to any of the POTW wastewater facility, the POTW shall
cause the deposit or obstruction to be promptly removed or cause the damage
to be promptly repaired. The cost for such work, including materials, labor
and supervision shall be borne by the person or industrial user causing such
deposit, obstruction or damage.



(C)   The remedies provided in this chapter shall not be exclusive and the
POTW may seek whatever other remedies are authorized by statute, at law or in
equity against any person or industrial user violating the provisions of this
chapter.



(D)   In addition to any fine levied under section 7-5-12 of this chapter,
the POTW may, where the circumstances of the particular case so dictate, seek
injunctive relief to prohibit the user from discharging into the sanitary
sewer system, or to provide such other affirmative relief as may be
appropriate. (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



7-5-12: PENALTIES AND COSTS:



(A)   Penalties And Costs: Any industrial user who is found to have
violated an order of the POTW or who has failed to comply with any provision
of this chapter and the orders, rules and regulations and wastewater
discharge permits issued hereunder, shall be fined in an amount not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
for each violation. For the purpose of this section, each day in which any
such violation shall occur shall be deemed a separate violation, and a
separate violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each constituent
which has limitations listed in section 7-5-3 of this chapter found to exceed
the limits established in this chapter during any such day. In addition to
the penalties provided herein, the POTW may recover reasonable attorney fees,
court costs, court reporter fees and other expenses of litigation by
appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated this
chapter or the order, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.



(B)   Falsification: Any person who knowingly makes any false statements,
representation or certification in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or
wastewater discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this
chapter, shall be subject to the penalties and costs provided in subsection
(A) of this section and shall in addition be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00). (Ord. 85-715, 6-17-1985)



 


Notes

106 
33 USC 1311 et seq.

107 
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.

108 
42 USC 6901 et seq.

109 
33 USC 1251 et seq.



CHAPTER 6
WEEDS



7-6-1: NUISANCE:



It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for the owner
or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect to cut weeds or grass when
such weeds or grass shall have reached a height in excess of ten inches
(10"). (Ord. 88-922, 6-6-1988)



7-6-2: NOTICE:



The city administrator or any other duly authorized personnel may issue a
written notice for removal of weeds or grass. Such weeds or grass shall be
cut by the owner or occupant within ten (10) days after such notice has been
duly served. (Ord. 88-922, 6-6-1988)



7-6-3: SERVICE OF NOTICE:



Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the same
to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
household of the age of fifteen (15) years or older found on the premises or
by mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner;
provided, that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner's address cannot
be obtained, then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the
premises. (Ord. 88-922, 6-6-1988)



7-6-4: ABATEMENT:



If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the
city may proceed to abate such nuisance, and charging the owner of the
property, tenant and/or occupant of the property for such abatement as
follows:



(A)   First Abatement: Cost of abatement plus fifty dollars ($50.00).



(B)   Second Abatement: Cost of abatement plus one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00).



(C)   Third Abatement And Every Abatement Thereafter: Cost of abatement
plus three hundred dollars ($300.00).



The aforedescribed abatement costs are applicable for each mowing season as
such abatement charges shall be charged and paid by any such owner, tenant,
and/or occupant. (Ord. 99-1511, 6-21-1999)



7-6-5: LIEN:



Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A bill
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service shall
be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within thirty (30) days
of submission of the bill, a notice or lien of the cost and expenses thereof
incurred by the city shall be recorded in the following manner:



The city or the person performing the service by authority of this city, in
its or his own name, may file notice of lien in the office of the recorder of
Clay County. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting
out:



(A)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof.



(B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service.



(C)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within sixty (60) days after the cost and expense is
incurred. (Ord. 88-922, 6-6-1988)



7-6-6: PAYMENT:



Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his
address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien
has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in whose
name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in the
same manner as filing notice of the lien. (Ord. 88-922, 6-6-1988)



7-6-7: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:



Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosures shall be in the name of the city after the
lien is in effect for sixty (60) days. (Ord. 88-922, 6-6-1988)



CHAPTER 7
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL



7-7-1: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE:



All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890. If in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and all applicable
local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices upon installation and annually thereafter, at a minimum. The owner of
the premises shall maintain records to document that testing, servicing and
repairs are conducted as required. (Ord. 89-978, 5-15-1989)



7-7-2: PRIVATE, AUXILIARY OR EMERGENCY SUPPLY:



No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply other than the regular public water supply of the city enter the
supply or distribution system of said municipality, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply, shall have been approved by the superintendent of water and the
Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 89-978, 5-15-1989)



7-7-3: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:



It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years,
or as often as the superintendent of water shall deem necessary. Records of
such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five (5) years. (Ord. 89-978, 5-15-1989)



7-7-4: RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES; INSPECTIONS:



The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the water
superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection
control inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the superintendent of water any information which
he may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the superintendent of water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 89-978, 5-15-1989)



7-7-5: DISCONTINUE SERVICE; RECONNECTION FEE:



The superintendent of water of the city is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions
of this chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary
measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of
the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property
shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection
fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is paid to the city. Immediate
disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the superintendent of
water is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided, that in the
reasonable opinion of the superintendent of water or the Illinois
environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
public water supply, the superintendent of water, or its agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues
which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination
was with or without notice. (Ord. 89-978, 5-15-1989)



7-7-6: CLEAN UP COSTS:



The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through
an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean up of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 89-978, 5-15-1989)



7-7-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:



The rules and regulations on cross connection control, which are contained in
the city's policy and procedure manual, and incorporated herein by reference,
are hereby approved and adopted and shall be enforced by the city from and
after June 1, 1989. (Ord. 89-978, 5-15-1989)



CHAPTER 8
LANDSCAPE WASTE YARD FEES



7-8-1: FEES:




The fees for the use of the city landscape waste yard facility are hereby set
as follows:





City resident, hauling less than two (2) cubic yards   No charge





City resident, hauling more than two (2) cubic yards   $ 5.00





Nonresident of the city, hauling less than two (2) cubic yards   10.00





Nonresident of the city, hauling more than two (2) cubic yards   15.00





Commercial landscape contractor hauling less than two (2)





cubic yards   5.00





Commercial landscape contractor hauling more than two (2)





cubic yards   10.00





(Ord. 04-1860, 7-19-2004, eff. 8-1-2004)




7-8-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:




The rules and regulations for the use of the landscape waste yard facility of
the city including the hours of operation, shall be established by the city
administrator on an annual basis and posted at the city hall, 131 E. 2nd
Street, Flora, Illinois, and the public works building, 200 Fairview, Flora,
Illinois. (Ord. 96-1295, 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 09-2263, 7-6-2009)




CHAPTER 9
POTABLE WATER



7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:




PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, city of Flora, Illinois, or any other legal
entity or their legal representatives, agents or assigns.





POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing
dishes, or preparing foods. (Ord. 02-1716, 3-4-2002)




7-9-2: USE OF GROUND WATER PROHIBITED:




Use of ground water as a potable water supply within the corporate limits of
the city of Flora, Illinois, is hereby prohibited except for such uses or
methods in existence before the effective date hereof. Furthermore, the use
or attempt to use as potable water supply ground water from within the
corporate limits of the city of Flora, Illinois, by the installation or
drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This chapter
shall include the city of Flora, Illinois, being prohibited from such use of
potable water and the drilling of such wells. (Ord. 02-1716, 3-4-2002)




7-9-3: PENALTY:




Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine up to, but not exceeding, seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. (Ord. 02-1716, 3-4-2002)




CHAPTER 10
OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING FURNACES



SECTION:



7-10-1:      Purpose



7-10-2:      Definitions



7-10-3:      Construction and Operation Prohibited



7-10-4:      Penalties



7-10-5:      Existing Outdoor Furnaces – Non-Conforming Use



7-10-6:      Enforcement



7-10-1:   PURPOSE: 



It is generally recognized that the types of fuel used, and the scale and
duration of burning by outdoor wood burning furnaces, creates noxious and
hazardous smoke, soot, fumes, odors and air pollution, can be detrimental to
citizens health, safety and welfare and can deprive neighboring residents of
enjoyment of their property or premises. With the adoption of this chapter,
it is the intention of the city of Flora to establish and impose restrictions
upon the construction and operation of outdoor wood burning furnaces within
the city limits.  (Ord. 11-2435, 6-20-2011)



7-10-2:   DEFINITIONS:



As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings indicated:



 


OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING FURNACE:

 

An accessory structure, designed and intended, through the burning of wood,
for the purpose of heating the principal structure or any other site,
building or structure on the premises.



VIOLATOR OR ANY PERSON WHO VIOLATES ANY PROVISION OF THIS CHAPTER:
 

Any person who owns or occupies the property at the time the outdoor wood
burning furnace has been installed and/or operated.




 



(Ord. 11-2435, 6-20-2011)



7-10-3:   CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION PROHIBITED:



The construction, operation and placement of outdoor wood burning furnaces
within the city limits of the City of Flora are hereby prohibited.  (Ord.
11-2435, 6-20-2011)



7-10-4:   PENALTIES:



(A)   Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by the city court of
the city of Flora, Illinois or the state of Illinois shall be punished by a
minimum fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and no more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.



(B)   Compliance with this chapter may also be compelled in violations
restrained by order or by injunction of a court of jurisdiction. Any person
who violates any provision of this chapter shall also be subject to a civil
penalty of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and shall be
responsible for payment of any and all costs incurred by the city in having
said wood burning stove removed from said premises including but not limited
to attorneys fees and court costs. Each weeks continued violation shall be,
for the purpose of this chapter, a separate and distinct violation. (Ord.
11-2435, 6-20-2011)



7-10-5:   EXISTING OUTDOOR FURNACES - NON-CONFORMING USE:



Any outdoor furnace in existence on the effective date of this chapter shall
be permitted to remain subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter.



Specific Requirements:



(A)   No outdoor wood burning furnace existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter shall thereafter be extended or enlarged.



(B)   Only firewood and untreated lumber are permitted to be burned in any
outdoor furnace. Burning of any and all other materials in an outdoor furnace
is prohibited.



(C)   Outdoor furnaces shall be operated only between October 1 and April
30 of each year.



(D)   All outdoor furnaces shall be equipped with properly functioning
spark arrestors.



(E)   Stack height and location:



1.   If the wood burning furnace is located on the lot of the residence
being served or if located within fifty (50) feet or less to any residence
not served by the furnace on an adjoining lot, the stack must be at least two
(2) feet higher than the eave line of that residence.



2.   If located more than fifty (50) feet away but no more than one
hundred (100) feet to any residence not served by the furnace, the stack must
be at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the height of the eave line of that
residence plus an additional five (5) feet.



3.   If located more than one hundred (100) feet but no more than one
hundred fifty (150) feet to any residence not served by the furnace, the
stack must be at least fifty percent (50%) of the eave line of that residence
plus an additional five (5) feet.



4.   If located more than one hundred fifty (150) feet but no more than
two hundred (200) feet to any residence not served by the furnace, the stack
must be at least twenty-five (25) feet of the height of the eave line of that
residence, plus an additional five (5) feet.



(F)   Any existing outdoor wood burning furnace which is abandoned or
discontinued for a period of ten (10) consecutive months shall not be
permitted to be re-established as a non-conforming use and must be
immediately removed by the property owner from the subject premises.



1.   If the property owner fails to remove the outdoor wood burning
furnace by the said seven (7) consecutive month period, the city of Flora by
and through its building official and shall give written notice by certified
mail or personal service to the owner of the property on which the outdoor
wood burning furnace is located. Such notice shall provide that said owner
shall remove the outdoor wood burning furnace within ten (10) days of the
date the notice is either postmarked or personally served upon the owner.



2.   Should the outdoor wood burning furnace not be removed within the
time specified, the Building Official shall take reasonable steps to effect
its removal including any and all action by a court of competent jurisdiction.



3.   The costs incurred by the city of Flora effect said removal
(including any attorneys fees, regardless of whether suit is filed, court
costs, costs of removal or otherwise) but an amount equal to fifty percent
(50%) of said costs of removal shall be charged to the owner of said
premises. Said charges shall be paid by the owner of the real estate so
affected within forty-five (45) days from the date said costs are presented
to the owner. If said expense is not paid within forty-five (45) days, the
City may place a lien upon said real estate and through proper court action
foreclose the same. Nothing contained herein shall restrict the city of Flora
from proceeding directly against the owner for all costs and damages.



(G)   No existing outdoor wood burning furnace which has been damaged by
any reason to the extent of more than seventy-five percent (75%) of its value
shall be repaired or rebuilt.



(H)   In the event any existing wood burning furnace becomes a nuisance
due to the creation of noxious/hazardous smoke, soot, fumes, odors or other
air pollution, the same may be determined a public nuisance and the city
building official is authorized to have the nuisance abated by the owner of
said real estate which may include the termination of use of said wood
burning furnace. (Ord. 11-2435, 6-20-2011)



7-10-6:   ENFORCEMENT: 



The city building official of the city of Flora, Illinois is hereby
authorized to enforce the provisions of this ordinance. (Ord. 11-2435,
6-20-2011)



CHAPTER 11
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT - DRONES



7-11-1:  DEFINITIONS:



For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



AIRCRAFT    Any contrivance invented, used, or designated to navigate or
fly in the air.



AIRSPACE    The airspace above the land, water and waterways within the
jurisdiction of the City of Flora, Illinois.



FIREARM    Has the meaning ascribed as used in the Ordinances of the City
of Flora and Statutes of the State of Illinois.



HOBBY or RECREATIONAL PURPOSES     A pursuit engaged in for relaxation,
and not for business purposes and not for compensation or hire.



OPEN AIR ASSEMBLY UNIT   Means any structure, enclosed areas or other
demarcated space used for the assembly of persons in the open air, including,
but not limited to, amusement parks, stadiums, athletic fields, aviation
fields, band stands, grandstands, observation platforms, outdoor public or
private swimming pools, outdoor theaters, street festivals or parade routes.



OPERATE   To pilot, steer, direct, fly or manage a small unmanned aircraft
through the air whether from within the aircraft or remotely. The term
"operate" includes managing or initiating a computer system that pilots,
steers, directs, flies or manages a small unmanned aircraft.



PUBLIC AIRCRAFT   Has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section 40102 of
Title 49 of the United States Code.



SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT   An aircraft that (1) is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft, and
(2) weighs less than 55 pounds at the time of the operation, including the
weight of any payload or fuel. The term "small unmanned aircraft does not
include "toy aircraft" or "public aircraft" as defined herein.



SURVEILLANCE   The gathering, without permission and in a manner that is
offensive to a reasonable person, of visual images, physical impressions,
sound recordings, data or other information involving the private, personal
business or familial activities of another person, business or entity, or
that otherwise intrudes upon the privacy, solitude or seclusion of another
person, business or entity, regardless of whether a physical trespass onto
real property owned, leased or otherwise lawfully occupied by such other
person, business or other entity, or into the airspace above real property
owned, leased or otherwise lawfully occupied by such other person, business
or other entity, occurs in connection with such surveillance.



TOY AIRCRAFT   (1) A glider or hand-tossed small unmanned aircraft that is
not designed for and is incapable of sustained flight; or (2) a small
unmanned aircraft that is capable of sustained flight and is controlled by
means of a physical attachment, such as a string or wire.



WEAPON   Any instrument, article or substance that, under the
circumstances in which it is used, attempted to be used or threatened to be
used, is readily capable of causing death or serious physical injury. (Ord.
17-2928, 6-5-2017)



7-11-2:  OPERATING REGULATIONS:



No person shall operate any small unmanned aircraft in airspace:



(A)   Except for hobby or recreational purposes only and in conformity
with this section;



(B)   Directly over any person who is not involved in the operation of the
small unmanned aircraft, without such person's consent;



(C)   Over property that the operator does not own, without the property
owner's consent, and subject to any restrictions that the property owner may
place on such operations;



(D)   At an altitude higher than 400 feet above ground level;



(E)   Outside the visual line of sight of the operator. The operator shall
use his or her own natural vision (which includes vision corrected by
standard eyeglasses or contact lenses) to maintain at all times an
unobstructed view of the small unmanned aircraft, without the use of
vision-enhancing devises, such as binoculars, night vision goggles, powers
vision magnifying devises, goggles designated to provide a "first person
view" from the model or similar devices;



(F)   Within the air space of the Flora Airport;



(G)   In a manner that interferes with, or fails to give way to, any
manned aircraft;



(H)   Between dusk and dawn;



(I)   Whenever weather conditions impair the operator's ability to operate
the small unmanned aircraft safely;



(J)   Over any open air assembly unit, school, school yard, public or
private park, hospital, place of worship, prison or police station, without
the property owner's consent, and subject to any restrictions that the
property owner may place on such operation;



(K)   Within 500 feet of any water intake facility or any electric
generating facility, substation or control center, or within 100 feet of any
electric transmission facility, or within 25 feet of any electric
distribution facility or of any overhead wire, cable, conveyor or similar
equipment for the transmission of sounds or signal, or of heat, light or
power, or data, upon or along any public way within the City, without the
facility or equipment owner's consent, and subject to any restrictions that
the facility or equipment owner may place on such operation;



(L)   For the purpose of conducting surveillance, unless expressly
permitted by law;



(M)   While under the influence of alcohol, or other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof, as those terms
are defined in 625 ILCS 5/11-501, as amended;



(N)   That is equipped with a firearm or other weapon;



(O)   With intent to use such small unmanned aircraft or anything attached
to it to cause harm to persons or property;



(P)   In a reckless or careless manner;



(Q)   In violation of any Federal or State law. (Ord. 17-2928, 6-5-2017)



7-11-3:  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION:



(A)   Operations authorized by the FFA - Exception. Nothwithstanding the
prohibitions set forth in this Section 2-13, nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit, limit or otherwise restrict any person who is
authorized by the Federal Aviation Administration to operate a small unmanned
aircraft in air space, pursuant to Section 333 of the FFA Modernization and
Reform Act of 2012 or a certificate of waiver, certificate of authorization
or airworthiness certificate under Section 44704 of Title 49 of the United
States Code of other Federal Aviation Administration grant of authority for a
specific flight operation(s), from conducting such operation(s) in accordance
with the authority granted by the Federal Aviation Administration.



(B)   Operations prohibited by FFA - Clarification. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to authorize the operation of any small unmanned
aircraft in air space in violation of any Federal statute or rules
promulgated thereunder, but not limited to, any temporary flight restrictions
or notices to airmen issued by the Federal Aviation Administration.



(C)   Operations authorized by the State of Illinois - Exception.
Nothwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in this section, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the use of a drone by a law
enforcement agency in accordance with Section 15 of the Freedom from Drone
Surveillance Act, codified at 725 ILCS 167/1 et seq., or its successor
provision. (Ord. 17-2928, 6-5-2017)



7-11-4:  PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:



Pursuant to 740 Illinois Compiled Statutes 115/1 et seq., the parent or legal
guardian of a minor defendant who resides with such parent or legal guardian
shall be liable for any fine or condition of restitution or reparation
imposed by a court upon a minor for actual damages for willful or malicious
acts of such minor which cause injury to a person or property, provided, that
such minor has not paid such fine or made such restitution or reparation
within the time ordered by the court, and further provided that such parent
or legal guardian has been served with a summons or notice to appear in the
original cause and all proceedings thereafter as provided by law. (Ord.
17-2928, 6-5-2017)



7-11-5:  SEIZURE FOR UNLAWFUL USE:



On a second or ensuing incident or on a first incident resulting in property
damage or personal injury and when the Mayor, Police Chief or their duly
authorized enforcement officers or designees have a reasonable basis to
believe that any small unmanned aircraft is or has been operating in
violation of this section, said small unmanned aircraft may be seized by such
duly authorized enforcement official, followed by an opportunity for an
administrative hearing, with notice to the owner within seven (7) calendar
days of such seizure, for the purpose of reviewing the appropriateness of the
seizure, and shall be held by the City until such time that the owner of such
small unmanned aircraft reimburses the City for the actual cartage costs
incurred in connection with the seizure and pays to the City $20.00 for each
day, or part of a day, that the small unmanned aircraft is in storage. If
criminal charges involving the use, conditions or operation of the small
unmanned aircraft are pending, the small unmanned aircraft shall be held
until disposition of the criminal charges. If it is determined at an
administrative hearing, by a preponderance of evidence, that the seized small
unmanned aircraft was not operated in violation of this section, such small
unmanned aircraft shall be returned to its owner without charge. (Ord.
17-2928, 6-5-2017)



7-11-6:  RULES:



The Police Chief, in consultation with the corporate counsel, is authorized
to promulgate rules necessary or appropriate to implement all rules and
regulations regarding this ordinance. Such rules shall be publicly available
and conspicuously posted. (Ord. 17-2928, 6-5-2017)



7-11-7:  VIOLATION; PENALTY:



Any person who violates this section or any rule promulgated hereunder shall
be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $750.00 for each offense and in
addition thereto shall be ordered to make restitution or reparation for any
damages to person or property which may arise from operation of said small
unmanned aircraft. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 17-2928, 6-5-2017)



TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY



CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS



8-1-1: OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:



No person shall cause, create or maintain any obstruction on any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public ways, except as may be specifically
authorized by ordinance or by the council 1 . (1956 Code, Sec. 7.01)



8-1-2: MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS:



No person shall place or display on any public sidewalk any goods, chattels
or merchandise, except as may be necessary while receiving or shipping such
goods, chattels or merchandise. (1956 Code, Sec. 7.02)



8-1-3: SWINGING GATES:



No gate or door shall open out over any sidewalk. (1956 Code, Sec. 7.03)



8-1-4: REFUSE ON STREETS:



(A)   No person shall deposit on any street, alley or sidewalk any ashes,
offal, dirt, garbage or any other offensive material which may be harmful to
the pavement, or any rubbish, junk, tin cans, glass or other articles which
may do injury to any person or property.



(B)   No owner or person in possession of any property shall suffer or
permit any of the materials, substances or items described in subsection (A)
of this section to remain between the boundary of any street or alley
adjacent to the property and the center line of the street or alley. (1956
Code, Sec. 7.04)



8-1-5: SPITTING:



(Rep. by Ord. 02-1714, 2-19-2002)



8-1-6: BICYCLES:



(Rep. by Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



8-1-7: SNOW REMOVAL:



All owners or occupants of premises located in the city shall keep the
sidewalks abutting the premises free from snow and other obstructions 2 .
(1956 Code, Sec. 7.07)



8-1-8: TREES:



No person shall injure or attach any signs, advertisements or notices to a
tree or shrub in any public place. Any tree or shrub which overhangs any
sidewalk or street or any other public place in such a way as to impede or
interfere with traffic or travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the
abutting premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that obstruction shall
cease. Any tree which has become likely to fall on or across any public place
or way shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which the tree is
located. In the event the owner of the abutting premises on which a tree or
shrub grows fails to trim any obstruction or fails to remove a tree which has
become a danger to the public, the city of Flora shall remove said
obstruction or tree and the owner of the property shall pay for any and all
costs associated with said trimming of any tree, shrub or obstruction or the
removal thereof. (Ord. 02-1709, 2-19-2002)



8-1-9: DRAINS AND WATER:



(A)   No person shall obstruct any drain or drainage ditch in any public
street or alley. No person shall maintain or otherwise locate in any drain or
drainage ditch any culvert at a driveway or other crossing of any material
other than concrete, iron or galvanized steel. No person shall maintain,
place or otherwise locate in any drain or drainage ditch, culverts of a size
smaller than those which conform with the specifications laid down or
approved by the city council.



(B)   No person shall permit the flow of water over any sidewalk. (1956
Code, Sec. 7.09)



8-1-10: INJURY TO STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:



(A)   No person shall injure, disturb or interfere with any sidewalk,
street or alley pavement, or any street sign, post, signal, lamp or barrier.
(1956 Code, Sec. 7.10)



(B)   No person shall walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while guarded by a warning
sign or a barricade. No person shall knowingly injure any soft newly laid
pavement. (1956 Code, Sec. 7.15)



(C)   No person shall operate any vehicle on any street, way, roadway,
highway or alley exceeding the maximum gross weight shown on signs caused to
be erected by the commissioner of streets and alleys designating restrictions
as to the weight of vehicles to be operated upon any such street, way,
roadway, highway or alley. In determining the maximum gross weight limitation
to be placed upon any street, way, roadway, highway or alley, the
commissioner of streets and alleys should consider their condition and/or the
weather conditions affecting same. Such maximum weight limitation of vehicles
shall not be less than eight thousand (8,000) pounds. This section shall not
apply to garbage, and refuse collection vehicles, fire and other emergency
vehicles. (Ord. 78-387, 3-20-1978)



8-1-11: OPENING AND ALTERING STREETS AND ALLEYS:



Whenever ten (10) responsible freeholders of the city shall present to the
city council a petition in writing, signed by them, and praying for the
opening, widening or altering of any public street or alley, the city council
shall appoint a committee of three (3) of its members to make an inspection
of the grounds, and report what further action, if any, they deem advisable.
If the city council shall determine to grant the prayer of such petition, it
shall declare, by an order spread upon its minutes, that such street or alley
shall be opened, widened or altered, particularly defining the extent and
location of such proposed street or alley. Unless the amount of compensation
to the owners of all property proposed to be taken for such purpose, shall be
determined by written agreement, the mayor, in the name of the city, shall
cause proceedings to be instituted in pursuance of the provisions of state
law, and all further proceedings with reference to such work shall be held in
pursuance of such state law 3 . (1956 Code, Sec. 7.11)



8-1-12: STREET CONSTRUCTION:



(A)   Permit: No person shall lay or repair any pavement on any public
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, without having first secured a
permit from the city council.



(B)   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in
conformity with specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the
city council.



(C)   Repair: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be
kept in good repair. Repair work, whether done by the city or by the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the commissioner of streets and
public improvements.



(D)   Barricades: Any person laying, repairing or making an excavation in
any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other public place shall maintain
suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of
the work. The barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at night. Any
defects in any pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury 4 . (1956 Code,
Sec. 7.12)



8-1-13: DRIVEWAYS:



(A)   No person shall construct a new driveway from any public street or
lay tiles or culverts or do any other act that might alter or interfere with
the drainage of water along or through a ditch bordering upon a street or
highway within the city without having first obtained a permit therefor. No
permit shall be issued except upon the order of the commissioner of streets
and public improvements.



(B)   The portion of a driveway that crosses a sidewalk shall be level and
at the same grade as the sidewalk, and of such material that it will not be
slippery or hazardous for pedestrians. (1956 Code, Sec. 7.13)



8-1-14: EXCAVATIONS:



(A)   No person shall make any excavation in the improved portion of any
public street or within three feet (3') of the improved portion of any public
street. (1956 Code, Sec. 7.14)



(B)   No person shall tunnel or make any excavation under any public
street within the city boundaries of the city of Flora, Illinois, without
first obtaining the permission of the director of public works. (Ord.
02-1713, 2-19-2002)



8-1-15: FRESHLY OILED STREETS:



(A)   The commissioner of streets and public improvements shall cause all
freshly oiled streets to be closed to traffic and signs to be posted at
appropriate places along the street, informing the public that the street is
closed.



(B)   No person shall drive or operate any type of vehicle, motor driven
or otherwise, upon any freshly oiled street or alley within the city until
such time as the commissioner of streets and public improvements determines
that the street is ready for travel. (1956 Code, Sec. 7.16)



8-1-16: INSPECTION OF WATER PIPES:



(A)   Where any street or alley is about to be improved by grading, paving
and draining, the commissioner of streets and public improvements shall cause
all water service pipes in such street or alley to be thoroughly inspected in
ample time before the pavement is laid.



(B)   The commissioner of streets and public improvements shall report to
the city clerk all water service pipes which are found defective and unsafe,
and the clerk shall transmit such report to the commissioner of public
property.



(C)   The commissioner of public property shall immediately give notice to
the owner of or person occupying the premises of the defective condition of
the water service pipe. Upon receiving such notice, the owner or occupant of
the premises shall immediately replace the defective water service pipe with
new lead water service pipes under all parts of the street or alley which is
to be paved, at his own cost and expense. If the owner or occupant fails to
replace the defective water service pipe it shall be removed by the city
before any pavement is laid, and water service to the premises discontinued.
(1956 Code, Sec. 7.17)



8-1-17: WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM, USE OF CITY PROPERTY:



The municipally owned waterworks and sewerage system be and it is hereby
authorized to use city streets, alleys and all other city owned property to
erect, construct, install and lay and thereafter use, operate, inspect,
repair, maintain, replace and remove water towers, water treatment plant,
water mains, water lines, pumps, pump stations, sewer lines, lift stations,
sewerage treatment plant, manholes and all other appurtenances that may be
required for the operation and existence of the municipally owned waterworks
system and sewerage system, forever. (Ord. 81-533, 6-1-1981)



8-1-18: FARMING ON STREET AND ALLEY RIGHTS OF WAY PROHIBITED:



It shall be unlawful to farm, plow, disk, plant, cultivate or harvest crops
upon any street or alley right of way in the city and any person violating
this section shall be guilty of a petty offense and subject to a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day a violation occurs. Any person violating this
section shall further be subject to civil penalties equal to the cost of
clearing the drainage ditch on the street or alley right of way of soil or
silt. (Ord. 83-633, 11-7-1983)



8-1-19: STREET SIGNS PLACEMENT:



The placement rules and regulations as to street signs located on public
rights of way, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a part hereof, are
hereby approved and adopted by the city. (Ord. 84-675, 10-15-1984)



8-1-20: DEFINITIONS:



(A)   Terms Defined: For the purpose of this section the following terms,
phrases and words shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is
always mandatory and not merely directory.



CITY: The city of Flora, Illinois.



PERSON: Any public or private individual, group, company, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, society or any other combination of human beings
whether legal or natural.



PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any area between the street and private property.



(B)   Duties Of Private Owners As To Public Right Of Way Located Between
Street And Private Property: It shall be the duty of any person who has
private property located adjacent to a public street in the city to maintain
and mow the public right of way, with said weeds and grass on the public
right of way not to exceed eight inches (8") in height. (Ord. 88-934,
9-19-1988)



(C)   Notice: The city shall, by and through its employees or agents,
cause to be served upon an owner of adjacent private property a notice
ordering such person to maintain and mow the grass and weeds on said right of
way within ten (10) days from the date of such notice. (Ord. 02-1711,
2-19-2002)



(D)   Penalties: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this
section shall be subject, upon conviction in a court of competent
jurisdiction, to a fine not exceeding the sum of five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 88-934, 9-19-1988)



 


Notes

1 
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3.

2 
625 ILCS 5/11-209.

3 
65 ILCS 5/9-3-1 et seq.; 605 ILCS 5/7-101.

4 
65 ILCS 5/9-3-1 et seq.



CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY



8-2-1: SEXTON:



The cemetery sexton shall be responsible for the operation, care and upkeep
of the city cemetery, under the supervision of the commission of public
health and safety 1 . (1956 Code, Sec. 8.01)



8-2-2: LOT PRICES:




The sales price for grave spaces in the now open and existing Elmwood
cemetery shall be four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) and grave spaces in
the new addition to the Elmwood cemetery located north of the existing
Elmwood cemetery shall be five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) when said new
addition is opened by the city. All fees for said lots shall be paid prior to
interment. (Ord. 06-2031, 12-4-2006; amd. Ord. 16-2748, 3-21-2016)




8-2-3: TRANSFER OF LOT:



No lot or space within the city cemetery shall be sold or transferred from
one owner to another without the consent of the commissioner in charge of the
city cemetery. No consent shall be given by said commissioner to the sale or
transfer of a lot or space within the city cemetery if the price for the lot
or space exceeds the price set for the lot or space by this chapter. Said
transfer, after having been approved and made, shall be entered upon the
cemetery record books of the city. (Ord. 88-942, 11-21-1988)



8-2-4: TERMS OF LOT SALES:



Lots within the city cemetery may hereafter be sold for cash or upon a time
payment basis as hereinafter provided. Burial spaces upon lots shall be sold
for cash only. Time payment sale of lots shall be made only upon written
agreement for the sale and purchase thereof, executed in the name of the city
as seller, and the purchaser thereof. A minimum down payment of the price of
one space upon the class of lot sold shall be made by the purchaser, and the
remaining balance due thereon shall be paid in equal monthly payments over a
period not to exceed six (6) months, with interest upon unpaid balances at
the rate of six percent (6%) per annum. If the purchaser fails to comply with
terms and conditions of this chapter and the purchase agreement executed by
him, all right, title and interest of the purchaser in the unused portion of
the lot at the time of default shall be forfeited and the city shall be
obligated to convey to such purchaser only the used portion of the lot on the
date of the forfeiture. Only one interment shall be allowed on any one lot
until the purchase contract thereon is completely paid. (1956 Code, Sec. 8.04)



8-2-5: OPENING OF GRAVES:



No person shall be permitted to open a grave in the city cemetery, remove the
surplus soil therefrom, refill the grave and level the lot or otherwise,
except with the permission of the cemetery sexton. All grave openings shall
be done by the licensed funeral director conducting the services at the sole
expense of the funeral director and said funeral director may use a third
party to perform such openings and closings. The cemetery sexton shall be
contacted to receive information to open the grave and obtain information as
to the size of the burial box or burial vault. The opening and closing the
grave by the funeral director shall include opening, refilling after burial
and removing all surplus soil as well as level and grade the lot. (Ord.
92-1107, 4-6-1992; amd. Ord. 16-2748, 3-21-2016)



8-2-6: BURIAL FEES:




In addition to any fees set forth herein, an additional grave fee of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per lot shall be charged for a grave. Said
fee shall cover the marking fee, fee for monuments, settlement fee or
otherwise to maintain Elmwood Cemetery. Said fee shall be paid prior to
internment. (Ord. 16-2748, 3-21-2016)




8-2-7: FEES, DISPOSITION:



All money received from the sale of spaces and lots, and for the services of
the cemetery sexton shall be immediately paid to the city clerk and by him,
within ten (10) days after receipt, paid over to the city treasurer for
deposit to the credit of the cemetery fund of the city. All money so received
and deposited shall be expended for cemetery purposes only. (1956 Code, Sec.
8.07)



8-2-8: LOT IMPROVEMENTS:



(A)   The city desires to leave the improvement of lots as far as possible
to the taste of the owners; but it reserves the right, given it by law, to
exclude or remove from any lot any headstone, monument or other structure,
tree, plant or other object whatever which may conflict with the regulations,
or which it considers injurious to the general appearance of the grounds; but
no trees growing within any lot should be removed or trimmed without the
consent of the cemetery sexton.



(B)   Lot owners may have planting or other work done on their lots at
their expense, upon application to and approval by the cemetery sexton. No
workman, other than employees of the cemetery, will be admitted to the
cemetery except for the purpose of setting stonework or upon approval of the
cemetery sexton.



(C)   No iron or wirework and no seats or bases will be allowed on lots
except by permission of the sexton, and when any article made of iron begins
to rust it shall be removed from the cemetery.



(D)   The city desires to encourage the planting of trees and shrubbery,
but, in order to protect the rights of all and to secure the best general
results, it requires that such planting shall be done only in accordance with
the directions of the sexton.



(E)   No coping nor any kind of enclosure will be permitted upon any lot
or part of lot. The boundaries of lots may be marked by cornerstones at the
expense of the owner and with the approval of the cemetery sexton.
Cornerstones may not project above the ground.



(F)   No lot shall be filled above the established grade, and mounds of
graves shall not exceed four inches (4") in height above the grade of the lot
6 . (1956 Code, Sec. 8.08)



8-2-9: USE OF LOT AND SPACES:



Internments in lots shall be restricted to members of the family or relatives
of the lot owner. Only one (1) person may be buried in each space.  However,
four (4) cremation urns may be buried in one (1) space.  Also, burial of one
(1) infant child age twelve (12) months or less may be buried with an adult
in a space. It shall be permissible to bury one (1) cremation urn at the foot
and in the same space with one (1) traditional burial.  (Ord. 00-1628,
12-4-2000; Ord. 09-2217, 2-2-2009; Ord. 09-2255, 6-15-2009)



8-2-10: DISINTERMENT:



No disinterment will be allowed without the consent of the city, of the lot
owner, and the next of kin of the deceased. (1956 Code, Sec. 8.10)



8-2-11: MONUMENTS:



The foundation for a monument or headstone shall be constructed subject to
the approval of the cemetery sexton and be at least as wide and as long as
the base resting upon it, and shall not be constructed above the ground
level. The foundation shall be constructed to a depth below the frost line
and sufficient to carry the weight of the stone to be placed on it.
Furthermore, there shall only be one (1) headstone per grave and if
appropriate, one (1) footstone for a cremation urn buried at the foot of said
space.  (1956 Code, Sec. 8.11)  (Ord. 09-2256, 6-15-2009)



8-2-12: BURIAL VAULTS:



(A)   All graves in which a vault is to be placed shall be dug to a
sufficient depth so that no part of said vault shall be less than two and
one-half feet (2 1/2') below the surface elevation of said burial lot.



(B)   The building or construction of burial vaults so that any part of
the same is above the surface elevation of the burial lot is prohibited
except as hereinafter provided.



(C)   No burial vault shall be constructed in the city cemetery, any part
of which is above the surface elevation of the burial lot, unless an
application shall have first been submitted to the city council and a permit
to construct said vault ordered to issue by vote of the city council.



(D)   Said application shall be executed by the owner or owners of the lot
upon which the vault is to be erected and verified by the affidavit of said
owner or owners, and shall also state the following particulars:



1. Total cost of said vault as erected.



2. Name of the lot owner or owners.



3. Description of the lot (number and subdivision) where said vault is to be
erected.



4. Name of maker and type of vault to be erected, giving dimensions and
overall size of the vault as erected and the size of each component part of
said vault.



5. Description of the material to be used in the construction of said vault
and the type of joint joining the component parts to be used, the type of
base to be used, and the depth to which placed.



6. Be accompanied by a detailed drawing according to scale showing dimensions
and size of component parts, location of vents and drains.



(E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no permit shall
be granted for the construction of a vault in the city cemetery which is
built of materials other than marble or granite slabs of not less than six
inches (6") in thickness, or which is more than five feet (5') above the
surface elevation of the ground without fill, upon which said vault is to be
erected. Likewise, all such vaults shall have a concrete floor with adequate
drains and floor sloping to drains, and all of said vaults shall be vented by
screened bronze vents or equivalent and joined by bronze dowels and clamps or
equivalent throughout; no double tiered vaults shall be permitted.



(F)   In the event that a permit for the construction of said vault is
granted by the city council, the same shall not be issued by the city clerk
until the applicant has paid into the cemetery trust fund of the city five
percent (5%) of the cost of said vault as shown by said application, in order
to assure the perpetual upkeep of said cemetery. (1956 Code, Sec. 3.12)



(G)   In regard to all burials in the city cemetery, it is hereby required
that a concrete burial box or vault be used.



Wooden burial boxes are expressly prohibited from use in the city cemetery.
(Ord. 81-519, 2-2-1981)



(H)   This section shall not be applicable in a situation where, prior to
the adoption of this code on February 18, 1975, a burial lot in the city
cemetery had, prior to said date, constructed thereon a structure commonly
known as a burial vault, a portion of which is above the surface of such lot
and a portion of which is below the surface of such lot and such structure or
burial vault has been used for the burial of one or more members of the
family of the person or persons owning said lot.



In such situation, additional interments or burials of members of the same
family shall be allowed on such lot in structures which may hereafter be
constructed similar to those already in use and compatible with the existing
structures or vaults.



It shall not be necessary in such situation for plans and specifications to
be filed with or approved by the sexton and such structures may be
constructed by contractors or workmen employed by the owner of such lot under
the general supervision of the sexton. (Ord. 83-602, 5-2-1983)



(I)   Burial Vaults:  It shall not be necessary nor mandatory that any
individual cremated be placed in an urn vault or other vault for burial and
interment in Elmwood Cemetery. (Ord. 06-2031, 12-4-2006; Ord. 09-2218,
2-2-2009)



8-2-13: REMOVAL OF MATERIALS:



Material for stone or marble work will not be allowed to remain in the
cemetery longer than necessary, and refuse or unused material must be removed
as soon as the work is completed. In case of neglect such removal will be
made by the city cemetery sexton, at the expense of the lot owner and
contractor, who shall be severally responsible. No material of any kind will
be received at the cemetery after twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturdays.
(1956 Code, Sec. 8.13)



8-2-14: ENFORCEMENT:



The cemetery sexton is empowered to enforce the provisions of this chapter
and is vested with full police power to arrest without warrant, any offender
violating any provision hereof, or disturbing the sanctity of the cemetery or
committing any depredation therein. (1956 Code, Sec. 8.14)



8-2-15: CEMETERY TRUST FUND:



(A)   There is established a cemetery trust fund, for the use and benefit
of the city cemetery heretofore established by the city, and now maintained
by it, together with all additional grounds hereafter purchased by the city
for cemetery purposes and added thereto.



(B)   The city treasurer is ex officio treasurer of the cemetery trust
fund and has custody of the funds and securities in the trust fund. He shall
keep an accurate account thereof, and shall collect and receive all income
therefrom accruing from time to time.



(C)   The treasurer of the cemetery trust fund is authorized to receive in
trust any sum of money, not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) in amount at any
one time, by bequest; and to receive in trust from any person, by gift or
donation, during the lifetime of such person, any sum of money. All money or
bonds or other valuable property, real or personal, which may be given or
bequeathed to the treasurer of the cemetery trust fund shall constitute the
cemetery trust fund. The treasurer of the cemetery trust fund is authorized
to receive for the fund any gift or devise or donation of real estate or
other property. In the case of real property, he is authorized to sell and
convey the same by good and sufficient deed of conveyance. The money realized
from such sale shall be a part of the cemetery trust fund.



(D)   The treasurer of the cemetery trust fund shall invest all money
received by him as aforesaid in notes, bonds, mortgages, stocks or such other
form of investment as in his judgment may be best so that the highest legal
rate of income is realized therefrom, consistent with the safety and security
of the trust fund. The treasurer may sell and dispose of any such notes,
bonds, mortgages, stocks or other evidences of such investment from time to
time as in his judgment may be best; and may reinvest the proceeds of such
sales from time to time in like manner.



(E)   The treasurer of the cemetery trust fund shall, in no event,
reinvest any of the income received from the investment of the trust fund.
The income shall be paid into the regular cemetery fund for use in
maintaining, caring for, improving and beautifying the city cemetery;
provided, however, that any donor, either by will or by gift, may in his
instrument of gift provide that the income arising annually from the money
and funds given and donated by such person, shall be devoted and used, first
to the care of the particular lot of ground and the grass and graves, trees
and other ornaments thereon, designated by such donor; and any surplus then
remaining shall be used generally for the cemetery as the council may
designate.



(F)   The treasurer of the cemetery trust fund shall report in detail to
the mayor and council at the end of each fiscal year. The report shall show
the receipts, investments, income and expenditures of the cemetery trust fund
during the preceding fiscal year. The treasurer of the cemetery trust fund
may deduct from the trust fund all reasonable and necessary expense incurred
in carrying on the trust, but shall not receive any compensation from the
fund, or the income therefrom, for his services as treasurer thereof 7 .
(1956 Code, Sec. 8.15)



8-2-16:  CREMATION ASHES: 



No cremation ashes shall be scattered or otherwise disposed of unless in
accordance with the city code of the city.  (Ord. 09-2253, 6-15-2009)



8-2-17:  HOURS OF OPERATION:



The Elmwood Cemetery shall be open to the general public from sunrise to
sunset each day unless otherwise posted. Any individual who enters into
Elmwood Cemetery during the hours of which it is closed shall be guilty of
trespass. This ordinance shall not be appli-cable to employees of the City of
Flora or law enforcement officials performing duties as an employee or law
enforcement officer. Any person found guilty of violating this section shall
not be fined less than $75.00 and no more than $750.00 per each single
offense. (Ord. 18-2987, 6-4-2018)



 


Notes

1 
765 ILCS 835/.01.

6 
765 ILCS 835/2.

7 
760 ILCS 100/1 et seq.



CHAPTER 3
UTILITY RATES



8-3-1: UTILITY SERVICE CHARGE; OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:




There shall be and there is hereby established a monthly public utility
service charge of five dollars ($5.00) to those individuals or entities
outside the corporate limits of the city to whom the city furnishes, or will
in the future furnish, either gas, water, sewer or electrical service. (Ord.
72-120, 3-14-1972; amd. Ord. 11-2442, 8-15-2011)




8-3-2: WATER AND SEWER RATES:



(A)   Basic For Water Service Charges: The water service charge for the
use of and for service supplied by the water facilities of the city shall
consist of a basic user charge, debt service charges, and a capital
improvement charge.



(B)   Levy And Computation Of Basic User Charge: The basic user charge is
levied on all users to recover the operation, maintenance plus replacement
(OM&R) costs and shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters.



The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:



1. Estimate the annual water volume.



2. Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and maintain the
water facilities, including a replacement fund for the year, for all work
categories.



3. Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons.



(C)   Computation Of Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge is
computed by apportioning the annual debt service as a charge per one thousand
(1,000) gallons.



(D)   Levy And Computation Of Capital Improvement Charge: The capital
improvement charge is levied on users to provide for capital improvements,
extensions or reconstruction of the waterworks. The capital improvement
charge is computed by apportioning the annual amount to be accrued as a
charge per one thousand (1,000) gallons.



(E)   Review: The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed,
not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in
their annual audit report. The water service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or OM&R costs.



(F)   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic
user charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of one hundred (100) gallons. (Ord. 99-1504, 6-1-1999)



1. If the person procures any part, or all, of his water from sources other
than public waterworks system, the person shall install and maintain, at his
expense, water meters of a type approved by the city for the purpose of
determining the volume of water obtained from these other sources.



2. Devices for measuring the volume of water may be required by the city if
these volumes otherwise be determined from the metered water consumption
records.



3. Metering devices for determining the volume shall be installed, owned, and
maintained by the person. Following approval and installation, such meters
may not be removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the
city. (Ord. 99-1504, 6-1-1999)



(G)   Basic User Charge: There shall be and there is hereby established a
basic user charge of four dollars and fifty-four cents ($4.54) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water consumption to be applied to all
users to recover OM&R costs.



   Furthermore, an additional one dollar ($1.00) per meter shall be
assessed to all users for payment by the city of Flora to the state of
Illinois for various fees imposed by the state of Illinois on the water and
sewer systems in the city of Flora. (Ord. 04-1887, 10-18-2004; Ord. 09-2229,
4-6-2009)



(H)   Debt Service Charge: There shall be and there is hereby established
a debt service charge of twenty-five cents ($0.25) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons to each user of the water facility. (Ord. 09-2229, 4-6-2009)



(I)   Capital Improvement Charge Established: There shall be and there is
hereby established a capital improvement charge of twenty-five cents ($0.25)
per one thousand (1,000) gallons to each user of the water facility. (Ord.
99-1504, 6-1-1999; Ord. 09-2229, 4-6-2009)



(J)   Rates; General Service Use Inside City Limits:



 



Combined water and sewer service:
 
 


   First 1,000 gallons used per month
 
$34.93 minimum charge


   All over 1,000 gallons used per month
 
13.23 per 1,000 gallons


Water service only:
 
 


   First 1,000 gallons used per month
 
20.00 minimum charge


   All over 1,000 gallons used per month
 
6.54 per 1,000 gallons


Sewer service only:
 
 


   First 1,000 gallons used per month
 
14.93 minimum charge


   All over 1,000 gallons used per month
 
6.69 per 1,000 gallons




 



(Ord. 06-2005, 8-7-2006; Ord. 08-2155, 6-2-2008; Ord. 09-2229, 4-6-2009; Ord.
15-2707, 9-8-2015)



Commencing on April 1, 2016 and each year thereafter, the aforedescribed
rates shall be subject to an automatic annual increase of three percent (3%)
each and every year unless the city council of the city of Flora, Illinois
provides otherwise. (Ord. 05-1931, 8-1-2005, eff. 9-1-2005; Ord. 09-2229,
4-6-2009; Ord. 15-2707, 9-8-2015)



(K)   Computation Of Water Service Charge: The water service charge shall
be computed by the following formula:



CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU




Where  CW   =   Amount of water service charge ($) per billing period.





CC   =   Capital improvement charge.





CD   =   Debt service charge.





CM   =   Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement.





Vu   =   Water volume for the billing period.





X   =   Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge.





CU   =   Basic user charge for operation, maintenance, replacement and
capital improvements and debt service.  (Ord. 09-2229, 4-6-2009)




(L)   General Service Use Outside City Limits: Users located outside the
corporate limits of the city shall pay the applicable rate for users inside
the city limits plus an additional fifty percent (50%) charge. (Said 50
percent charge covers debt service and capital costs for users outside the
corporate limits.)



There shall be and there are hereby established high volume outside use
charges and rates for the use of and for the service supplied by the
waterworks system to consumers whose average monthly consumption of water
computed on an annual basis is two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) gallons
per month or more. The average monthly consumption classification of water
for each consumer shall be determined from the consumption by such consumer
on the billings for the months of February through January of the year
preceding such billings. New applicants for water service who anticipate
usage of two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) gallons per month or more, may,
upon approval by the city council, be charged at the anticipated
classification until such time as billings have been made for such new
consumer for a period from February through the following January. After an
average monthly classification has been established for such new consumer,
previous billings shall be computed upon such established average monthly
consumption. In the event such new consumer has been charged a higher rate
than that established, the city shall refund to the new consumer any
overcharge. In the event that such new consumer has been charged a lower rate
than that established, the new consumer shall pay to the city any undercharge.



Commencing on April 1, 2016 and each year thereafter, the aforedescribed
rates shall be subject to an automatic annual increase of three percent (3%)
each and every year unless the city council of the city of Flora provides
otherwise. (Ord. 99-1504, 6-1-1999; Ord. 15-2707, 9-8-2015)



HIGH VOLUME USE SERVICE



 


Water Service 2

 
 


Average monthly consumption classification:
 
 


250,000 to 1,000,000 gallons of water used per month on an annual basis
 
 
$4.26 per 1,000 gallons








(Ord. 06-2019, 10-2-2006; Ord. 08-2155, 6-2-2008; Ord. 15-2707, 9-8-2015)



For average monthly consumption in excess of 1,000,000 gallons of water used
for water service there shall be a special contract between the city and the
user.



(Ord. 99-1532, 9-20-1999, eff. 11-1-1999; Ord. 08-2155, 6-2-2008; Ord.
15-2707, 9-8-2015)



 


Sewer Service

 
 


Average monthly consumption classification:
 
 


For any user in excess of 250,000 to 1,000,000 gallons of water used per month
 
 
$6.08 per 1,000 gallons








Commencing on April 1, 2016 and each year thereafter, the aforedescribed
rates shall be subject to an automatic annual increase of three percent (3%)
each and every year unless the city council of the city of Flora provides
otherwise.



(Ord. 06-2019, 10-2-2006; Ord. 09- 2229, 4-6-2009; Ord. 15-2707, 9-8-2015)



The charges herein set forth for high volume use for water and sewer service
shall be applicable and uniform as to users of water similarly situated
inside or outside of the corporate limits, except as to contract water
purchasers, village of Xenia, a municipality, and Wabash Asphalt Company, a
corporation.



The council is hereby authorized to make such rates and regulations
consistent with this section for the connection to the combined waterworks
and sewerage system, specifying the types and sizes of pipes from time to
time as may be deemed necessary. All service pipes and connections to the
combined waterworks and sewerage system shall comply with the said
specifications and rules.



All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
water meter furnished by the city. Meters shall be installed in a location
that will be easily accessible to meter readers. Each customer shall have a
separate meter unless otherwise provided by the ordinance of the city. The
commissioner of public property shall cause to be read every water meter of
customers using the city water supply at such times as are necessary so that
the bills may be sent out at the proper time. In the event that weather
conditions, or other conditions beyond the control of the city, prevent the
reading of water meters at such time as may be necessary for bills to be sent
out at the proper time, the city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
bill each such customer for an estimated amount of water consumption which
said billing shall not exceed the amount of the average billing for the
previous six (6) month period for each such customer. Users will not connect
any service line or any plumbing connected with the service line to any other
water source or cause any cross connection to any other water source.



(M)   Bills, Delinquent Bills, Liens And Foreclosure Of Liens: All
billing, delinquent bills, and charges relating thereto shall be subject to
section 8-3-7 of this chapter.



(N)   Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
water system shall be deposited in the water account of the water fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the city treasurer separate and
apart from her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the city treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or
at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
city council. The treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the water
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such
system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the "Water Fund of the City of Flora". Said
treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided
by statute of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act", effective January 1942.



(O)   Accounts: The city treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water
system, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water system.



In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit report
shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water
facilities, including a replacement cost. The financial information to be
shown in the audit report shall include the following:



1. Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year.



2. Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.



3. Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.



4. Number of users connected to the system.



5. Number of nonmetered users.



(P)   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of
this section shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.



(Q)   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency or
its authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents,
papers, and records of the city which are applicable to the water system to
user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the loan
agreement and rules of any state loan.



(R)   Effective Date Of Rates: The rates and service charges established
for user charges herein shall be effective as of the next fiscal year
beginning May 1, 1999, and on bills to be rendered for the next succeeding
month being June 1, 1999, for all users.



(S)   Validity: If any section, paragraph, clause or provisions of this
section shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the
invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this section.



(T)   Appeals: The method of computation of rates and service charges
established for user charges herein shall be made available to a user within
three (3) days of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement
over the method used or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the
city clerk within seven (7) days after notification of a formal written
appeal outlining the discrepancies.



(U)   Definitions:



CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.



FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:



Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.



Federal Act: The federal 1996 safe drinking water act amendments.



LOCAL GOVERNMENT:



Approving Authority: The city council of the city of Flora, Illinois.



City: The city of Flora, Illinois.



Ordinance: This ordinance.



PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.



STATE GOVERNMENT:



Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.



State Act: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970.



State Loan: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks as provided for by the Illinois antipollution bond
act and for making such loans as filed with the secretary of state of
Illinois.



TYPES OF CHARGES:



Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
water system.



Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the waterworks.



Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding.



Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.



Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
the works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.



Useful Life: The estimated period during which the waterworks will be
operated.



User Charge: A charge levied on users of waterworks for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.



Water Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received in
the operation of the water system.



Water Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of
the water facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
this section and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge and the
local capital cost if applicable.



WATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:



Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water constituent. It is
0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters (1,000 ml) of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water
analysis.



ppm: Parts per million by weight.



pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA
division of laboratories manual of laboratory methods.



WATER SERVICE:



Curb Cock: A shutoff to a water service pipe from a water main to a building
installed near the curb, which may be a valve key to start or stop flow in
the water supply lines of a building. Also called curb stop.



Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.



Service Box: A valve box used with corporation or curb cock. (Ord. 99-1504,
6-21-1999)



   (W)   Non-Transfer of Utilities Including Deposits When Changing
Addresses:  Any city of Flora residential utility customer who is leasing
and relocates to a different rental location within the city of Flora as a
tenant, shall be required to pay in full the balance owed on any utility
(including final meter readings) at the current location.  There shall be no
transfer of utilities from one residential location to the other.  The
current meter deposit with the city of Flora may be applied to the utility
balance at the former location and the remaining deposit amount (if any) may
be applied to the meter deposit at the new residential location.  If the
current meter deposit does not cover the entire balance, said customer shall
be responsible for payment of the balance, as a final bill at the former
location, within fourteen (14) days.  If the final bill from the former
location is not paid within the fourteen (14) day period, the tenant will be
subject to disconnect at the new rental location for non- payment of a
utility bill.  For the new rental location of a tenant customer, a meter
deposit will be collected and a utility account will be established for the
tenant at the new location in accordance with the receipt of an approved
rental inspection form from the city building official.



For any individual that owns real estate within the city of Flora and it is
their primary residence, sells and then purchases at another location using
city of Flora utilities, the process described hereinabove shall also apply
with the exception of the rental inspection form.  Furthermore, if the
current meter deposit has been refunded, the balance/final bill on utilities
will be paid by the customer of the account and a two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) meter deposit shall be required for the new location unless said
meter deposit is waived or lowered by the city clerk based on the customer's
prior timely payments for utilities with the city.  (Ord. 09-2245, 5-4-2009)



8-3-3: ELECTRIC RATES:



There are hereby established rates and charges for the use and service of
electric current for light and power based upon electricity consumed as
recorded by electric meters based upon the type of premises serviced. The
city administrator of the city of Flora shall review the electric rates
charged by the city of Flora on an annual basis and thereafter make a
recommendation to the city council of the city of Flora, Illinois as to any
rate changes for electrical services. The report of the city administrator
shall be furnished to the city council on or before April 1 of each year. The
current rates are as follows: (Ord. 66-17, 7-18-1966; amd. Ord. 74-226,
10-7-1974; amd. Ord. 07-2092, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012)



(A)      Residential General Service: The rates established are
available to single family dwelling units for all domestic uses and churches.



      1.   Customer Charge (effective May 1, 2017): $16.88 per month
(Ord. 11-2432, 6-20-2011; amd. Ord. 12-2532, 11-5-2012; amd. Ord. 12-2535,
11-19-2012; amd. Ord. 17-2806, 3-6-2017)



      2.   Energy Charge (effective May 1, 2017):



         For the first 1,000 kWh used per month at $0.1265 per kWh.



         For all over 1,000 kWh used per month at $0.1001 per kWh.



         Subject to power cost adjustment according to subsection
(G) of this section.



      (Ord. 07-2092, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord.
17-2806, 3-6-2017)



(B)      Commercial General Service: The rates established are
available to commercial customers for lighting and power purposes. (Ord.
88-912, 5-24-1988; amd. Ord. 07-2092, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012)



      1.   Customer Charge (effective May 1, 2017): $16.88 per
month. (Ord. 04-1863, 7-19-2004; amd. Ord. 07-2092, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord.
11-2432, 6-20-2011; amd. Ord. 12-2532, 11-5- 2012; amd. Ord. 12-2535,
11-19-2012; amd. Ord. 13-2552, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 17-2806, 3-6-2017)



      2.   Energy Charge (effective May 1, 2017):



         For the first 1,500 kWh used per month at $0.1379 per kWh.



         For all over 1,500 kWh used per month at $0.1286 per kWh.



         Subject to power cost adjustment according to subsection
(G) of this section.  (amd. Ord. 17-2806, 3-6-2017)



(C)      Large Commercial Service: The rates established are effective
May 1, 2017. (Available to non-residential customers with a twelve (12) month
average use of 100 kW of demand or a twelve (12) month average load factor of
fifty percent (50%) or greater, and an annual usage exceeding 50,000 KWh.
This service is available for lighting, power and heating purposes.) (amd.
Ord. 12-2535, 11-19- 2012; amd. Ord. 13-2552, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 17-2806,
3-6-2017)



      1.   Customer Charge: (effective May 1, 2017): $16.88 per
month. (Ord. 11-2432, 6-20-2011; amd. Ord. 12-2532, 11-5-2012; amd. Ord.
12-2535, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord. 13-2552, 3-4- 2013; amd. Ord. 17-2806,
3-6-2017)



      2.   Demand Charge (effective May 1, 2017): $11.90 per kW for
all kW of billing demand.



      3.   Energy Charge (effective May 1, 2017):



         All kWh used per month at $0.078 per kWh.



         Subject to power cost adjustment according to subsection
(G) of this section. (Ord. 92-1137, 12-7-1992; amd. Ord. 07-2092, 8-6-2007;
amd. Ord. 07-2098, 8-20-2007; (amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord.
13-2552, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 17-2806, 3-6-2017)



(D)      Industrial Service: The rates established are effective May 1,
2017. (Available to non-residential customers with a twelve (12) month
average use of 100kW of demand or a twelve (12) month average load factor of
sixty percent (60%) or greater, and an annual usage exceeding 50,000 KWh.
This service is available for lighting, power and heating purposes.)



      1.   Customer Charge: (effective May 1, 2017): $16.88 per
month.



      2.   Demand Charge (effective May 1, 2017): $11.90 per kW for
all kW of billing demand.



      3.   Energy Charge (effective May 1, 2017):



         For the first 100,000 kWh used per month at $0.0779 per kWh.



         For the next 400,000 kWh used per month at $0.0715 per kWh.



         For all over 500,000 kWh used per month at $0.0692 per kWh.



         Subject to power cost adjustment according to subsection
(G) of this section. (Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord. 13-2552, 3-4-2013;
amd. Ord. 17-2806, 3-6-2017)



(E)      Power Factor Charge (Applicable to Industrial Customers at the
Option of the City): The rates established in this subsection are effective
May 1, 2017.



         The charge specified in this rate shall be applicable to
the kilovars by which the customer's average metered kilovars exceed the
customer's kilovars at an average power factor of ninety-five percent (95%)
lagging during the billing period. Such average kilovar billing shall be
determined in accordance with the following formula:



         kVar charge = [(kVar - (0.3287) (kW)] x $0.50 kW



      Where:



         kVar charge = kilovar billing amount in dollars



         kVar = metered kilovar demand at time of peak kilowatt
demand



         kW = metered billing kilowatts



         0.3287 = kilovar requirement at ninety percent (90%)
lagging power factor



      (Ord. 88-912, 5-24-1988; amd. Ord. 07-2092, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord.
12-2535, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord. 14-2662, 11-17-2014; amd. Ord. 17-2806,
3-6-2017)



(F)      High Voltage Delivery Discount: The rates established in this
subsection are effective December 1, 2014. All customers whose meters are
located upon the primary side of the transformers shall be given a discount
to the above rates amounting to one percent (1%) of the demand and energy
charges. (Ord. 90-1021, 3-5-1990; amd. Ord. 07-2092, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord.
12-2535, 11-19- 2012; amd. Ord. 14-2662, 11-17-2014)



(G)      Power Cost Adjustment: The above stated charges for electric
energy (kWh) shall be adjusted for any changes of rates hereafter made by the
supplier of electricity purchased by the city or by any subsequent supplier.
The city clerk is hereby empowered and directed to determine the amount of
said increase upon a per kWh basis and to thereafter, effective for the
billing period next following the effective date of change of rates, to
increase the rates charged all purchasers of electricity from the city. Such
change of rates made by said supplier to the city shall be determined and,
for each 0.01cent increase or decrease or major fraction thereof, in the
city's monthly base purchased power cost of 7.00 cents per kWh in the first
three (3) of four (4) months preceding the billing period,  there shall be
correspondingly added to or subtracted from each customer's bill, an amount
equal to 0.01 cents per kWh times the total kWh billed to the customers, on
all of the city's metered kilowatt hour rates.  (amd. Ord. 12-2535,
11-19-2012)



(H)      Annual Operations Expense Adjustment.



      1.   Non-demand Metered Rates: For residential and commercial
rates, and all other non-demand metered rates; the charges are subject to an
annual operations adjustment.  Commencing with the first billing date for
each consumer after April 30th of each year, there shall be a three percent
(3%) increase to the customer service charge and a three percent (3%)
increase to the difference between the energy charge and the base energy
charge of $0.080 as defined in the Power Cost Adjustment.



      2.   Demand Metered Rates: For the large power rate and the
industrial rate, and all other demand metered rates; the charges are subject
to an annual operations adjustment.  Commencing with the first billing date
for each customer after April 30th of each year, there shall be a three
percent (3%) increase to the customer service charge; and a three percent
(3%) increase to the difference, if positive, between the energy charge and
the base energy charge of $0.0426 per kWh.  (Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012; amd.
Ord. 17-2806, 3-6-2017)



(I)      Tax Adjustment: The rates established in this subsection are
effective July 1, 1988. All billings are subject to five percent (5%) of the
receipts or 0.0032 cents of the consumption, whichever is less of the use and
consumption of electricity as provided in the Illinois Public Utility Revenue
Act, or by any amendments to this act, or to any tax that may be enacted by
the state or federal legislatures.  (amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012)



(J)   Economic Development Rates: Any economic development rate provided
by the Illinois municipal electric agency through the city of Flora may be
available to any industrial commercial customer who meets the requirements of
said program which is available through the Illinois municipal electric
agency.  (Ord. 90-1021, 3-5-1990; amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012; amd. Ord.
14-2662, 11-17-2014)



(K)   Reserved.  (amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012; Rep. by Ord. 14-2662,
11-17-2014)



(L)   Reserved.  (Ord. 93-1149, 2-1-1993; amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012;
Rep. by Ord. 14-2662, 11-17-2014)



(M)   Security Lighting: The city will provide security lights to the
customers of the city. Upon the request of a customer and if the area for
installation of the security light is accessible, the city will furnish all
labor and material necessary to install the light and utility line for the
security light. However, if a utility pole is needed for the installation of
the security light, the city will furnish the utility pole at the expense of
the customer. The security light will be a one hundred (100) watt high
pressure sodium light. No security lights will be mounted on any privately
owned buildings. The security lights will not be metered for electric usage
by the city and the cost and charges for the electricity used for each
security light will be the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per month and will be
billed to the customer on the customer's utility bill. The city will maintain
the security light and the pole at no further cost to the customer. (Ord.
98-1416, 3-2-1998; amd. Ord. 12-2535, 11-19-2012)



(N)   Electric Customers Outside Of The Flora City Limits: Any customer
receiving city electric to property outside of the city of Flora city limits
shall be charged an additional five percent (5%) of the total electric bill
for usage and the same shall be added to the monthly bill as a part of the
electric rates charged to said customer. (Ord. 03-1820, 11-3-2003; amd. Ord.
12-2535, 11-19- 2012)



8-3-4: GAS RATES:



Gas rates shall apply on a monthly basis with charges to include the
facilities charge based upon type of service and size of meter as set forth
below, base rate for all gas delivered, gas charge, taxes, pipeline
surcharges and all other items provided herein or as incurred by the city.
(Ord. 00-1626, 11-20-2000; amd. Ord. 11-2433, 6-20-2011; amd. Ord. 12-2533,
11-5-2012)



(A)   Residential Gas Service Rates for Single Family Residence having a
gas meter size less than 450 cubic feet per hour:



         Facilities charge            $15.00 per month



         Base rate for all gas delivered       $2.70 per Mcf



(B)   Commercial User Service Rates based upon meters not exceeding 450
cubic feet per hour:



         Facilities charge            $30.00 per meter
per month



         Base rate for all gas delivered       $2.40 per Mcf



(C)   Large Commercial Users based upon gas meters between 450 cubic feet
per hour and 1600 cubic feet per hour:



         Facilities charge            $55.00 per meter
per month



         Base rate for all gas delivered       $2.40 per Mcf



(D)   Industrial Service Rates based upon meters that exceed 1600 cubic
per hour or gas that is delivered using a rotary style meter:



         Facilities charge            $255.00 per meter
per month



         Base rate for all gas delivered         $2.25 per
Mcf



(E)   Special Rates: The city council reserves the right to negotiate
special rates for large customers or special types of service including fuel
for engines.



(F)   Outside City Limits: Any users located outside the corporate limits
of the city shall pay the applicable rate for users inside the city limits
plus an additional five percent (5%) thereof to include facilities charges.



(G)   Gas Charges: The current gas charge (city rate gas cost) shall be
added to all gas rates for computing total monthly charges. These shall be
made for each billing by a projection of the annual cost of all gas to be
purchased, divided by the projected volume to be billed to the customers. The
result will be known as the "gas charge". (Ord. 00-1626, 11-20-2000; amd.
Ord. 11-2433, 6-20-2011; amd. Ord. 12-2533, 11-5-2012)



8-3-5: OPERATING EXPENSE ADJUSTMENT:




Any changes in operating expenses (in addition to cost of gas) shall be
passed uniformly and directly to all bills rendered after such determination
has been made by the city council. The determination shall be made using the
latest fiscal audit report with the "base operating expenses" being the
operating expenses recorded for the fiscal year ended April 30, 1986. Changes
in operating expenses shall be limited to and defined as the following:




(A)   Demonstrable changes identified in the fiscal reports of the city.



(B)   Changes in wages, salaries, payroll or payroll expenses applicable
after they have been put into effect.



(C)   Direct and permanently continuing costs over which the city council
has no control. (Ord. 92-1143, 12-21-1992)



8-3-6: PAYMENT OF UTILITY TAXES:




In addition to the foregoing charges established herein, the city clerk is
hereby empowered and directed to apply any utility tax or any type of tax
imposed on the sale or distribution of natural gas as provided by any state,
federal or local governmental agency or otherwise. (Ord. 92-1143, 12-21-1992)




8-3-7: COLLECTION OF UTILITY CHARGES AND CONNECTIONS:



(A)   Definitions: The following words used herein shall be held and have
the following meanings:



CONSUMER: The head of the household or the person in whose name the public
utility service is purchased from the city at the location in question.



PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE OR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES: Natural gas, water,
combined water and sewer, and electricity service or any one or more of same
furnished by the city unless the context otherwise requires. (Ord. 93-1148,
1-18-1993)



(B)   Meter Deposits: Each consumer of public utility services purchased
from the city for the first time or who is a tenant in a house or apartment
or mobile home or otherwise, or who is purchasing a residence on contract to
purchase, or whose service for any one of the city public utility services
sold has been disconnected for any reason for more than thirty (30)
consecutive days, shall, prior to receiving service for any city public
utility service, pay to the city all indebtedness for such service previously
received and penalties, if any, and all of the above shall make a deposit
with the city clerk of a meter deposit, the amount of which shall be as
follows:




For water and/or sewer, residential   $125.00





For natural gas, residential   125.00





For electricity, residential   125.00





For electricity, commercial and industrial   125.00





For gas, commercial and industrial   125.00





For water and/or sewer, commercial and industrial   125.00





In the event a residential homeowner desires to acquire all of the utility
services of the city of Flora, Illinois, said residential homeowner shall
submit a two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) meter deposit for all services.





All applications for utilities furnished to residential rentals, whether a
house, apartment, mobile home or otherwise shall be made by both the landlord
and the tenant. (Ord. 04-1871, 7-19-2004, eff. 8-1-2004)





In addition, a supplemental deposit shall be paid prior to connection or
reconnection of the service by anyone: 1) whose credit check upon application
shows an undesirable credit history, or 2) who is disconnected for
nonpayment. The amount of the supplemental deposit shall be equal to two (2)
times the estimated monthly bill, for all classes of customers, plus an
additional forty dollars ($40.00) for renters of residential properties or
apartments or mobile homes. This supplemental deposit shall be returned to
each customer who: 1) has paid the deposit in full, 2) has not been assessed
a late charge at any time during the preceding twelve (12) months, and 3)
requests the return of the deposit in person or by legal representative at
city hall or in writing to the city clerk.




(C)   Disposition Of Meter Deposit: The amount so deposited to the city
shall be retained by the city so long as the person is purchasing from the
city any public utility service for which the deposit is made or is indebted
to the city for any past due utility service. However, the meter deposit may
be refunded to the consumer after twelve (12) months have passed since the
date of the deposit if the consumer has made all utility payments in a timely
fashion and incurred no penalties and has no outstanding debts to the city
and this refund shall not be made available to any individuals who are
tenants or purchasing the property until such time as the consumer becomes
the owner of the real estate and twelve (12) months pass with payment of all
utility bills in a timely fashion. Otherwise, in the event consumption of
either natural gas, water or electricity is discontinued by the consumer, the
city clerk shall refund to him or his legal representative or heirs at law in
the event of his death, the balance remaining in said deposit, if any, after
deducting therefrom all sums due and owing to the city for services rendered
by the city, including penalties, if any, owing on said account. (Ord.
97-1344, 2-3-1997)



(D)   Payment Of Other Fees: The amount herein required to be deposited
shall be in addition to all other fees required to be paid to the city in
order to obtain public utility services from the city. (1956 Code, Sec. 6.10)



(E)   Reconnection Charges: In the event of disconnection of service by
the city for failure to pay utility service charges, the following
reconnection charges shall be made by the city clerk prior to the resumption
of service of public utilities:



         Electricity      $25.00



         Natural gas      25.00



         Water         25.00



(F)   Disconnection Charges: There shall be a disconnection charge made
for disconnection of any of the said utilities, and said charge shall be set
at twenty-five dollars ($25.00). This disconnection fee shall be made for any
reason other than failure to pay delinquent utility service bills. (Ord.
92-1143, 12-21-1992; amd. Ord. 11-2443, 8-15-2011)



(G)   Meters: Every consumer of public utility services furnished by the
city shall have a metered connection to the system for the specific utility
service being purchased at the location in question, which meter shall remain
sealed. The public utility services furnished for each separate household
shall be separately metered; provided, that in the case of rental property
served with any of the public utilities of the city where such public
utilities are purchased and paid for by the landlord or lessor of said
property, then and in that event, each separate location where any of such
services are so furnished shall be considered a separate household regardless
of the number of household units located therein, and the landlord or lessor
in such case shall be considered as the "consumer" within the meaning of this
section. A "location" within the meaning of this section shall be defined as
a plot of ground containing a residential structure or structures separated
from other such structures by a public street or alley. The city shall only
be required to furnish one meter for each public utility furnished at each of
said locations, for which the regular meter deposit applicable to residential
users shall be paid by the consumer to the city. (Ord. 775, 5-29-1963)



(H)   Access To Premises: Employees of the city public utility system
shall have the right at all reasonable times to go upon the premises
receiving public utility services for the purpose of reading and inspecting
the meters, ascertaining the number and type of connections to the public
utility system, inspecting the installation for purposes of safety and
disconnecting or reconnecting the installation to the public utility system
in question. Any person refusing the right to access to said premises to said
employee under this section shall be subject to penalty. (1956 Code, Sec.
6.10; amd. 1974 Code)



(I)   Meter Reading: The superintendent of utilities shall cause all
public utility service meters to be read each month, and at such times during
the month so that the city clerk can prepare bills for charges for public
utility services prior to the first day of the succeeding month. In the event
that weather conditions or other unusual circumstances make it impossible to
read meters in a particular month, the city clerk shall estimate the amount
of such billings. Such estimates, where possible, shall be based upon bills
rendered for the same month of the preceding year. (Ord. 92-1143, 12-21-1992)



(J)   Duties Of City Clerk: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to
render bills for public utility services and all other charges in connection
therewith, and to collect all monies due thereon. Such bills shall be mailed
to the address of the consumer shown on the clerk's records. The failure to
receive said bill shall not be a defense to the collection of the delinquent
penalty provided for in subsection (L) of this section.



(K)   Utility Tax: The city clerk shall include in the amount of all
public utility service bills the amount of any public utility tax imposed by
the state. (1956 Code, Sec. 6.10)



(L)   Payment Of Bills: All bills for public utility services shall be
rendered as of the first day of the month succeeding the month for which the
services were received and shall become delinquent if not paid prior to the
close of business on the fifteenth day of the same month, a penalty of ten
percent (10%) for residential utility users, five percent (5%) for commercial
users and 1.5 percent for industrial users of the total amount due shall be
added to the amount of all bills for public utility services on or before the
fifteenth day of the month. When the fifteenth day of the month falls on
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, then such bills for services shall not
become delinquent until the close of business of the next succeeding secular
business day.



In the event a residential utility user receives social security benefits as
and for said user's primary income and said benefits are not received until
the fifteenth day of each month or thereafter, said user may apply to the
city clerk of the city of Flora, Illinois, for an extension of time whereby
said utility bills would not be due and owing until the fifth day after said
user receives his or her social security benefits and if approved by the city
clerk. Thereafter, said bill will become delinquent and subject to any and
all penalties described hereinabove. (Ord. 04-1874, 8-16-2004)



(M)   Disconnection Of Service: In the event charges for any public
utility services are not paid by the twenty seventh day of the month
following the month for which the public utility services were received, the
city clerk shall notify the superintendent of utilities of such fact, who
shall cause the premises served to be disconnected from the public utility
system without further notice. In the event the twenty seventh day of the
month falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then public utility services shall
not be discontinued to the consumer until after the close of business of the
next succeeding secular day.



The city reserves the right to discontinue gas service to any premises on
account of nonpayment of any charges, or where the owner or tenant of such
premises has been found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of
this code or if a danger, hazard or unsafe condition exists.



Bills for gas service shall be rendered monthly and shall be delinquent after
the fifteenth day of each month. If any bill shall remain delinquent for a
period of twelve (12) days or more, then gas service shall be discontinued
and shall not be reestablished except upon payment of all delinquent bills,
together with reconnection charges.



If the bill of any gas customer shall remain delinquent twelve (12) days or
more, the city clerk shall notify such utility customer and the owner of the
property served that said gas service is to be terminated. Said notice shall
be sent by regular mail from the office of the city clerk, and shall
specifically inform such user of the following and shall be in the form
determined by the hearing officer designated below:



1. The customer may contact the city clerk to request a hearing on the
matter; and



2. The said request must be made within three (3) days of receipt of said
termination notice; and



3. If said request is made, a hearing will be held within ten (10) days of
receipt of the delinquent notice; and



4. The service will be discontinued within seven (7) days of said notice if
no request for a hearing is made.



In the event a customer requests a hearing prior to termination of service
for nonpayment of a delinquent gas bill, the city clerk shall, at the time
said request is made, advise such person of the time, place and date for the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer, said hearing
officer to be the mayor or a responsible person appointed by the mayor. The
hearing officer shall examine evidence submitted by the customer and by the
city gas department and on the basis thereof make findings as to the status
of the customer's account.



If the findings reached at said hearing are adverse to the customer, such
findings shall be reduced to writing, with a copy thereof to be forwarded to
said customer and to the owner of the property served. Said notice should
also contain the date on which service to the customer will be discontinued.



Gas service to a residential user shall in no event be disconnected for
nonpayment of bills when the St. Louis, Missouri national weather service
forecast for the following twenty four (24) hours forecasts the temperature
to twenty degrees Fahrenheit (20°F) or below during the holiday or weekend.
(Ord. 92-1143, 12-21-1992)



(N)   Joint And Several Liability: Subject to the limitations on the
liability of the owner of the premises hereinafter set forth, the owner of
the premises, the head of the household and the consumer of the public
utility services shall be jointly and severally liable for the public utility
services furnished on said premises, and the public utility services are
furnished to said premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, the head of the household and the consumer of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city. In the event the
charges for public utility services are not paid on or before the fifteenth
day of the month following the month for which the public utility services
were billed, the delinquent charges shall constitute liens upon the real
property for which said services are supplied for any charges in excess of
the deposits deposited with the city for such services; and the city clerk is
hereby authorized and directed to file a sworn detailed statement showing the
amount and extent of such delinquency in the office of the recorder of Clay
County, Illinois, and the filing of such statement shall be deemed notice of
the lien of payment of the services rendered. This method of enforcing the
collection of delinquent bills for public utility services shall be in
addition to any and all other remedies available to the city. The owner of
the premises shall not be liable for any utility services provided to a
tenant on such premises, after the time of disconnection of service provided
for in subsection (M) of this section, or after the time the city may
disconnect the service according to state law, whichever occurs later. The
city shall not require payment by the owner of the premises or any subsequent
tenant of the premises for such unpaid charges to a tenant as a condition for
reconnection of service of such utilities.



The city clerk shall notify the owner of the premises in writing within two
(2) weeks following the cutoff of utilities, setting forth the unpaid charges
as of the cutoff date, provided that the owner of the premises has notified
the city clerk of the name and address of the owner, the location of the
premises and the name or names of the tenant. (Ord. 1148, 1-18-1993)



(O)   Notice; Enforcement: A copy of subsections (L), (M) and (N) of this
section as revised, and this subsection, properly certified by the city
clerk, shall be filed in the office of the recorder of Clay County, Illinois,
and shall be deemed notice to all owners of real property of their liability
for public utility services supplied to any consumer of public utilities or
their respective properties, and it shall be the duty of the city to take all
action necessary or required by the laws of the state to enable the city to
file and collect claims for any money due for public utility services and to
prosecute and enforce such claims in the manner, form and time permitted by
the laws of the state. (Ord. 90-1033, 5-21-1990)



(P)   Connection To Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person not
an employee of the public utility system of the city to tap or make a
connection to the municipally owned water system prior to the issuance of a
permit by the city clerk, application for which shall be made by the owner or
person intending to use said water. Said permit shall be issued by the city
clerk upon the payment of a fee in the sum of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) and upon approval of the application by the officer of the city in
charge of the municipally owned water system. All connections or taps made to
the municipally owned water system shall be made by the officer of the city
in charge of the municipally owned water system or under the immediate
direction of said officer. (Ord. 78-416, 12-18-1978, eff. 1-2-1979)



(Q)   Connection To Electric System: No person not an employee of the
electric department of the public utility system of the city shall make
connection with the electric distribution system of the city nor shall any
person tamper with or disconnect or place any wires or other instruments in,
on or upon any meter installed by the city to measure electricity consumed on
premises served by the electric department of the public utility system of
the city. Any person violating this subsection shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1956 Code, Sec. 6.10)



(R)   New Connections Outside City Limits: New connections to the city
water, sewer and gas utilities and garbage collection service to customers
outside the city limits are hereby allowed subject to approval by the city
council or by such policy as the city council may direct. (Ord. 81-524,
3-16-1981)



(S)   Cost Of New Water Service Connections: The city will furnish and
install a three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter corporation, service pipe,
connection, fittings and meter for all complete connections made to the water
distribution system, with such connection to extend to the property line
only, provided that it is not in excess of sixty feet (60') in length from
the water main. The connection charge shall be three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00). Should any service line exceed sixty feet (60') in length from the
water main or be larger than three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter in size, the
applicant shall pay the city for the installation of such additional footage
or size. The charge for such additional footage or size shall be the cost of
material plus the cost of labor plus thirty percent (30%) of the total labor.



(T)   Cost Of New Sewer Service Connections: The city will furnish and
install a four inch (4") service wye, service pipe, connection and fittings
for all complete connections made to the sewage collection system and extend
such system to the property line only, provided that it is not in excess of
sixty feet (60') in length from the sewer collection system. The connection
charge shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). Should any service line
exceed sixty feet (60') in length from the sewer main or be larger than four
inches (4") in diameter, the applicant shall pay the city for the
installation of such additional footage or size. The charge for such
additional footage or size shall be the cost of material plus the cost of
labor plus thirty percent (30%) of the total labor.



In the event any customer desires a combination of water and sewer, the tap
fee shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) subject to the other conditions
described in subsection (S) of this section and hereinabove.



(U)   Cost Of New Gas Service Connections: The city will furnish and
install a service tee, a valve, service pipe, connection, fittings,
regulator, meter and necessary stopcocks for all complete connections to the
natural gas distribution system. For all regular one-half inch (1/2")
diameter residential or commercial service connections, the connection charge
shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00) for sixty feet (60') or less. For
any other gas service connection requiring larger than one-half inch (1/2")
diameter service pipe, fittings, stopcocks, regulators and meters, these
service connections will be made in a like manner, and said customer shall be
charged the cost of labor and material, plus thirty percent (30%) of the
amount of labor. The charge for such additional footage or size shall be the
cost of material plus the cost of labor plus thirty percent (30%) of the
total labor.



(V)   Cost Of New Electric Service Connections: The city will furnish and
install a transformer, pole, service line, connection and fittings for all
complete connections made to the electrical distribution system. For all
regular residential house service connections, the connection charge shall be
two hundred dollars ($200.00) and in the event poles are required to be set
by the city for electrical usage, then the charge shall be three hundred
dollars ($300.00). In the event underground electrical installation is
required or necessary, the charge shall be three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00) for any connection of one hundred feet (100') in length or less.
For commercial or industrial service connections, the applicant shall pay the
city the cost of each installation as determined by the city. The charges for
connections or any additional work, not described above, shall be the cost of
materials plus the cost of labor and an additional thirty percent (30%) of
the total labor. (Ord. 04-1864, 7-19-2004, eff. 8-1-2004)



8-3-8: TEMPORARY UTILITY DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION CHARGE:




In the event an existing customer, who intends to remain as a utility
customer, requests a temporary disconnection or reconnection of service for
electricity, natural gas or water, the city shall charge such customer the
sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each utility for the temporary disconnection
or reconnection to the utility system. (Ord. 89-1006, 11-27-1989)




8-3-9: RATE FOR WORK PERFORMED AND MATERIALS FURNISHED CONCERNING UTILITIES:




The city hereby establishes the fee for work performed and materials
furnished in regard to the city utilities as follows:




(A)   Cost of labor at the hourly rate for the workmen, plus thirty
percent (30%) of the total amount of labor for overhead expenses.



(B)   Cost of materials.




The standard connection fees for the various utilities shall remain in full
force and effect and the above charges shall apply only to any connections to
the utility system which labor and materials are in addition to the standard
connection. (Ord. 90-1061, 10-23-1990)




8-3-10: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY:



(A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of any utility
whenever it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for
any operating reasons or if an unsafe condition exists. In all cases where
possible, a reasonable notice of the circumstances will be given to the
customers, but in an emergency or discovery of any unsafe condition, the
utility may be shut off without notice. Such necessary repairs or work will
be made by the city as rapidly as may be practical. The city shall not be
held responsible or liable because of any shutoff or discontinuance of
service for any direct or resultant damages to any person, company or
customer.



(B)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons
who may be affected by a discontinuance of service that it will neither
insure nor be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages
direct or indirect by any reason for interruption of services. Any customer
having a facility, operation, process or activity which cannot under any or
all conditions tolerate temporary interruption of services should provide an
alternate source of said utility during such interruption. The responsibility
for the alternative utility rests fully with the customer. (Ord. 96-1335,
12-2-1996)



8-3-11: LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM:




During the period of time the city of Flora, Illinois, participates in the
Illinois department of commerce and economic opportunity low income home
energy assistance program the city shall charge to the users of gas and
electric the following:




Residential customer - forty cents ($0.40) for gas service and forty cents
($0.40) for electric service.



Industrial/commercial user - four dollars ($4.00) for gas service and four
dollars ($4.00) for electric service.



Said charge shall be added to the monthly utility bills of each customer and
shall be considered a part of the utility rates charged by the city of Flora,
Illinois. Said rate shall remain in effect for the period of time the city of
Flora participates in the Illinois department of commerce and economic
opportunity low income home energy assistance program. (Ord. 03-1807,
9-2-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)



 


Notes

2 
Rates shall become effective for the usage to be included with the billing on
October 1, 2015.



CHAPTER 4
ENCROACHMENTS



8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:




CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA: The area lying between the project right of way
limits and the platted street limits which the city, by concurrence in the
establishment of the project right of way lines, will permit the state to
enter to perform all necessary construction operations.





ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained, in, on, under or over any portion of the
project right of way or the roadway right of way where no project right of
way line has been established.





PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT: Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign or
similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent
to the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to
the building lane and which does not impair the free and safe flow of traffic
on the highway, the permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside the project right of way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.





PROJECT RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas within the project right of way lines
established jointly by the city, state, and the United States department of
transportation, which will be free of encroachments except as hereinafter
defined.





ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary
easement during the time the easement is in effect. (Ord. 76-322, 8-30-1976)




8-4-2: SPECIFICALLY REGULATED ENCROACHMENTS:




Improvement projects for which encroachments are specifically regulated are
as follows:




U.S. Route 45 (SBI Route 25, State Section (6,7)Z, RS-1 and 6TS, City Section
75-00017-00TL, from the west corporate limits easterly to Stanford Street.
(Ord. 76-322, 8-30-1976)



Vincennes Avenue from Mill Street to Emory Avenue. Any person, firm or
corporation violating this encroachment shall be fined not less than five
dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day
during which a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 78-381, 1978)



FAP 327 (U.S. Route 50/45) between the intersection of U.S. Route 50 and FA
26 (U.S. Route 45) west of Flora and the intersection of U.S. 50 and North
State Street in the city of Flora, Illinois. Any person, firm or corporation
violating this encroachment, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense or separate offense shall be deemed committed each and every day in
which a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 05-1966, 11-21-2005)




Representatives of the city and the state will have, by visual inspection,
cooperatively established project right of way lines and mutually determine
the disposition of encroachments. (Ord. 76-322, 8-30-1976)




8-4-3: ENCROACHMENTS; UNLAWFUL:




It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause to
be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment, within the
limits of the project right of way or roadway right of way where no project
right of way lines have been established. (Ord. 76-322, 8-30-1976)




8-4-4: ADDITIONAL RULING:




This chapter is intended to and shall be in addition to all other ordinances,
rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be construed as
repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any ordinance unless
in direct conflict therewith. (Ord. 76-322, 8-30-1976)




8-4-5: PENALTY:




Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be fined not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each
and every day during which a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 76-322,
8-30-1976)




CHAPTER 5
CAMPER FEES IN CHARLEY BROWN MEMORIAL PARK



8-5-1: FEES ESTABLISHED:



There are hereby established the following fees and charges for persons using
the camping facilities, shelters, or buildings or other facilities at Charley
Brown Memorial Park:



(A)   For travel trailers and campers, eighteen dollars ($18.00) per day
or one hundred eight dollars ($108.00) per week, payable in advance.



(B)   For each tent, six dollars ($6.00) per day or thirty-six dollars
($36.00) per week, payable in advance.



(C)   For use of the rain shelter or lakeside shelter, thirty dollars
($30.00) for four (4) consecutive hours.



(D)   For use of the REA Building, fifty dollars ($50.00) for four (4)
consecutive hours.



(E)   For use of the Scout Building, thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for four
(4) consecutive hours.



(F)   For reservation of a reunion site within Charley Brown Memorial
Park, ten dollars ($10.00) for four (4) consecutive hours.



(G)   The first picnic table is charged at three dollars ($3.00) and any
additional picnic table is at two dollars ($2.00) per picnic table.



All fees must be paid in advance and are non- refundable unless said
reservation is canceled within forty-eight (48) hours prior to use. In
addition to the above fees, there will be a twenty dollar ($20.00) fee for
clean up of the rented area if trash and rubbish is not picked up and placed
in appropriate trash receptacles. (Ord. 04-1865, 7-19-2004, eff. 8-1-2004;
amd. Ord. 08-2172, 8-18-2008; amd. Ord. 12-2484, 4-16-2012; amd. Ord.
18-2967, 3-19-2018)



CHAPTER 6
TREES; OTHER PLANTS



8-6-1: DEFINITIONS:



For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words
used in the present tense include the future and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.



CITY: The city of Flora, Illinois.



PERSON: Any public or private individual, group, company, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, society or any other combination of human beings
whether legal or natural.



REMOVAL: The actual removal or causing the effective removal through
damaging, poisoning or other direct or indirect actions resulting in the
death of a tree or shrub.



SHRUB: Any woody plant of low height with several stems.



STREET TREE: Any tree in a public place or on a public right of way. (Ord.
87-860, 8-17-1987)



8-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR THE PRESERVATION, REMOVAL OR PLANTING TREES ON
PUBLIC PROPERTY:



(A)   No person shall trim, spray, treat, preserve, remove or plant any
tree, shrub or grassy area in any public place or on any public right of way
without first obtaining a permit from the city.



(B)   Any person desiring a permit to trim, spray, treat, preserve or
remove a tree in any public place or on any public right of way shall submit
a written application to the director of community development setting forth:



1. The number and kind of trees to be trimmed, sprayed, treated, preserved or
removed.



2. The kind of treatment to be administered.



3. The kind and condition of the nearest trees upon adjoining property.



4. Such other information as the director of community development shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued.



(C)   Any person desiring a permit to plant any tree or shrub in any
public place or on any public right of way shall submit a written application
to the director of community development setting forth:



1. A diagram of the area showing pavement, streets, sidewalks, curbs and
gutters with a definite indicated scale.



2. The number, location and variety of trees and shrubs to be planted.



3. The number, location and variety of trees or shrubs already existing in
the area.



4. The method of planting, including the supplying of suitable soil.



5. Such other information as the director of community development shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued.



(D)   The director of community development shall issue a permit under
this section when he determines that the desired action and proposed methods
are satisfactory; the proposed plantings conform with the general area and do
not interfere with any public utilities either now or in the future. (Ord.
89-1004, 11-20-1989)



8-6-3: PLANTING OR GROWING AND MAINTENANCE OF STREET TREES:



It shall be the duty of any person who has plants or grows a tree on any
public place or public right of way to:



(A)   Place no tree so as to be, in the opinion of the city, a traffic
hazard.



(B)   Plant all trees at least thirty feet (30') apart.



(C)   Plant no tree within three feet (3') of any street, curb or sidewalk.



(D)   Place no tree where the soil is too poor to ensure growth.



No tree or shrub shall be planted by any individual or entity along the
public right of way of the city without the prior written consent of the city.



The city shall be responsible for the trimming of any trees located on any
public place or public right of way if the city deems said tree to be a
hazard or to interfere with streetlights, traffic signs or traffic visibility
and to treat or remove any tree that is either dead or so diseased or
infested as to constitute a hazard to the public or to other trees or plants.
The city shall have the right to trim or remove any such tree that interferes
with any movement of traffic or pedestrians regardless of whether said tree
or shrub is located on public or private property. (Ord. 92-1135, 11-2-1992)



8-6-4: REMOVAL OF TREES:



It shall be the responsibility of every property owner or occupant to
maintain trees or shrubs on his, her or its property, except as set forth in
section 8-6-3 of this chapter, in a safe and healthy manner and to keep trees
or shrubs properly trimmed and pruned so as to avoid hazards to persons,
property, traffic and other vegetation.



(A)   The city shall from time to time seek entry to private property in
order to inspect the trees and shrubs located upon the property. The city
shall first seek the property owner's permission to conduct such an
inspection. Should the property owner object to the inspection, the city may
seek, from a court of competent jurisdiction, authority to inspect the
premises in accordance with this section.



(B)   Upon finding that any tree or part thereof constitutes a nuisance
and an immediate danger exists to person, property or other vegetation, then
said city shall direct the property owner to remove the tree from the private
property and if said tree or shrub is located on public property or right of
way, the city shall remove said tree or shrub.



1. The method of service shall be in one or more of the following ways:



(a) By personal delivery of the order to the person responsible.



(b) By leaving the order with a person of suitable age and discretion on the
premises.



(c) By mailing the order by registered mail to the last known address of the
owner of the premises.



(d) By publishing the order in a local newspaper for three (3) consecutive
days.



2. The order shall set forth the time limit for compliance, which shall
depend upon the degree of danger created by the tree, but shall in no case be
longer than sixty (60) days. In the case of extreme danger, the city shall
have authority to require immediate compliance.



(C)   If at the end of the time period set forth in the order, the tree
has not been removed, it shall be declared a nuisance by the city, and the
city shall have the tree removed. The costs of this service, including labor,
equipment, and materials, as well as attorney fees and court costs, shall be
assessed to the property owner.



(D)   A tree shall be deemed a nuisance if it or any part of it:



1. Appears dead, dangerous or likely to fall;



2. Is not pruned to a height of ten feet (10') above the sidewalk.



3. Obstructs or interferes with a curb, gutter, street or sidewalk;



4. Interferes with sewers;



5. Is in dangerous proximity to interfere with public utilities;



6. Interferes with a planned public improvement; and



7. Interferes with a traffic sign or traffic visibility.



(E)   If the costs of remedying the condition are not paid after thirty
(30) days from receipt of a statement from the city, the amount shall become
a lien upon the property and the city clerk is authorized, empowered and
directed to file such lien with the county recorder.



(F)   The city shall have the right to trim or remove any tree or shrub
located on public right of way or upon private property in the event such
tree or shrub is deemed by the city to interfere with a traffic sign or
traffic visibility or with any utility; provided, that the city shall
verbally notify the property owner of such private property prior to or as
soon as reasonably possible after trimming or removing said tree or shrub.



(G)   All references in this section to "trees" shall include shrubs or
other vegetation. (Ord. 92-1135, 11-2-1992)



8-6-5: NONLIABILITY OF THE CITY:



Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to impose any liability upon the city
or upon any of its officers or employees nor to relieve the owner and
occupant of any private property from the duty to keep trees and shrubs upon
private property or street trees under his control in a safe condition. (Ord.
87-860, 8-17-1987)



8-6-6: REMOVAL OF FALLEN LEAVES, FALLEN BRANCHES AND STUMPS:



It shall be the responsibility of any person having any tree, plant or shrub
on his or her property or located on any public place or public right of way
adjacent to his or her property to:



(A)   Upon substantial accumulation of fallen leaves or cuttings, to
collect such leaves and cuttings and remove the same or burn the same in
accordance with the existing city regulations.



(B)   Gather any fallen branches and remove from the property.



(C)   Upon the removal of any tree carried out under the provisions of
this chapter, completely remove any remaining stump and refill with soil any
resulting hole or indentation in the ground. (Ord. 87-860, 8-17-1987)



8-6-7: EMERGENCIES:



In case of emergencies involving, but not limited to, tornadoes, windstorms,
floods, freezes or other natural disasters, the requirements of this chapter
may be waived by the city. (Ord. 87-860, 8-17-1987)



8-6-8: PENALTIES:



Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject,
upon conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction, to a fine not exceeding
the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 87-860, 8-17-1987)



CHAPTER 7
CHARLEY BROWN PARK



8-7-1: CHARLEY BROWN LAKE; USE REGULATIONS:



The boat ramp located at the large lake at Charley Brown park shall be
subject to the rules and regulations for use by boats as follows:



(A)   No motors shall be allowed on the boats except for trolling motors
and shall not exceed five (5) miles per hour.



(B)   There shall be no swimming in said lake from the boats or from the
bank of said lake.



(C)   There shall be one life jacket per individual in said boat and the
life jackets shall be capable of supporting for flotation purposes the
individuals in said boat.



(D)   All batteries used for the trolling motors in said boat shall be
secured to the boat so the battery may not fall over or fall out of the boat
even if said boat shall capsize.



(E)   The boat ramp at the lake shall be open from the sunrise to sunset
each and every day the park is open.



(F)   The lake shall be open to the public and the boats to be used on
said lake shall not exceed seventeen feet (17') in length and in no event
shall any houseboat or pontoon boat be allowed on said lake.



(G)   Prior to any boat being allowed on said lake, the boat shall obtain
the appropriate city decal from the city clerk and one of the conditions of
said decal shall be a proof through certificate of insurance with a one
hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00) public liability clause and the city
shall be named as an interested party on said certificate of insurance with a
notice of said insurance cancellation to be sent to the city in the event
said policy is cancelled. Further conditions for obtaining a city decal shall
be available at the city clerk's office. The city decal shall be valid for a
one year season beginning on January 1 of each year and terminating on
December 31 each year, and boater using said lake shall be required to obtain
a new decal every year. (Ord. 94-1219, 9-6-1994)



8-7-2: FEES:



There shall be no fees charged for the use of said lake by any boater. (Ord.
94-1219, 9-6-1994)



8-7-3: PENALTY:



Violations of any of the aforedescribed rules and regulations by any person,
firm or corporation shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each and every offense. (Ord. 94-1219,
9-6-1994)



CHAPTER 8
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX



8-8-1: RATE:



The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under the
simplified municipal telecommunications tax act 1 is hereby changed to four
percent (4%). (Ord. 04-1880, 9-15-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)



8-8-2: COLLECTION OF TAX:



The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the department of
revenue of the state of Illinois. The Illinois department of revenue shall
have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-1880, 9-15-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)



 


Notes

1 
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.



CHAPTER 9
UTILITY POLES



8-9-1: USE OF CITY UTILITY POLES:



The city of Flora, Illinois, shall be the sole user of the city utility poles
unless any individual or entity makes an application to the city council of
Flora, Illinois, to lease space on the utility pole for an unacceptable use
by the city council of Flora, Illinois. Said application shall be made to the
city clerk of Flora, Illinois, and the application shall be presented to the
city council of Flora, Illinois, at a regularly scheduled meeting. The city
council of Flora, Illinois, may determine what terms and conditions are
applicable for the particular application and either accept or deny the same.
(Ord. 00-1633, 12-18-2000)



8-9-2: RENTAL FEE:



The city of Flora, Illinois, shall charge a rental fee of four dollars
($4.00) per pole for use by any individual or entity using any city of Flora,
Illinois, utility pole for any approved purpose by the city council of Flora,
Illinois. (Ord. 00-1633, 12-18-2000)



CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL



8-10-1: PURPOSE:



The city of Flora, Illinois, is the owner of a swimming pool in the Charley
Brown park and said park is owned by the city of Flora, Illinois, and has
been in existence for a number of years prior to the adopting of the
ordinance codified herein. The purpose of this chapter and the sections
hereunder are to establish rules and regulations as well as the operations
for the city of Flora municipal swimming pool. (Ord. 01-1662, 5-21-2001)



8-10-2: ADOPTION OF THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH RULES AND
REGULATIONS:



The city of Flora, Illinois, adopts the Illinois department of public health
rules and regulations regarding swimming pools pursuant to 77 Illinois
administrative code part 820 and any amendments thereto. The operation of
said pool shall be subject to said rules and amendments thereto. (Ord.
01-1662, 5-21-2001)



8-10-3: POOL MANAGER AND ASSISTANT MANAGER:



The position of pool manager and assistant manager are hereby established by
the city council of the city of Flora, Illinois. The pool manager shall be in
charge of the day to day operations of the pool and is a part time position
with the city of Flora, Illinois. The assistant manager shall be delegated
duties and obligations by the pool manager and in the absence of the pool
manager assume the day to day operation of the pool. The employment of the
pool manager and assistant manager shall be pursuant to the employment
ordinances and rules and regulations of the city of Flora, Illinois,
including applications, interviews, wages, salaries or otherwise. (Ord.
01-1662, 5-21-2001)



8-10-4: HOURS OF OPERATION AND POOL RULES:



The commissioner supervising the park shall set the hours of operation of the
pool as well as establish pool rules and guidelines for the use of said pool
on an annual basis on or before May 1 of each year and report the same to the
city council on or before May 1 of each year. (Ord. 01-1662, 5-21-2001)



CHAPTER 11
DRAINAGE



8-11-1:  DRAINAGE:



   It is hereby adopted by the City of Flora, Illinois, all available
common law and statutory law of the State of Illinois as now in force and
exists or hereinafter adopted or amended unless specifically excluded hereby
for the purpose of regulating both natural drainage and man made drainage in
the City of Flora, Illinois and any and all areas outside the City of Flora,
Illinois as allowed by law.



   The City of Flora, Illinois hereby bans the use of any chemicals and/or
herbicides which defoliate and inhibit the growth of plants in the city
rights-of-way or easements in such a way as to cause erosion or inhibit
drainage of water in the said city drainage easements or rights-of-way
without the permission of the City of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 07-2115,
11-5-2007; amd. Ord. 12-2490, 5-7-2012)



8-11-2:  ENFORCEMENT: 



The Office of the Building Official of the City of Flora, Illinois shall and
is hereby empowered to enforce the drainage law of the City of Flora,
Illinois.  (Ord. 07-2115, 11-5-2007)



8-11-3:  PENALTIES:



Any individual or entity convicted of a violation of this title shall be
punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).  (Ord. 12-2490, 5-7-2012)



CHAPTER 12
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER



8-12-1:  RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: 



In determining which bidder is a "Responsible Bidder" on any City of Flora
Public Works project which requires bidding, the bidder must comply with the
following criteria, and submit acceptable evidence of such compliance, in
addition to any other requirements as determined from time to time by the
City of Flora, Illinois for the specific type of work to be performed:



(A)   All applicable laws and village codes and ordinances prerequisite to
doing business in the City of Flora, Illinois including any required licenses
for a particular purpose;



(B)   Evidence of compliance with



1. submittal of federal employer tax identification number or social security
number (for individual); and



2. provisions of Section 2000(e) of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the United States
Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246 as amended by Executive Order No.
11375 (known as the Equal Opportunity Employer Provisions).



(C)   Certificates of Insurance indicating at least the minimum coverage
and limits established by the City of Flora, Illinois for the public project
including general liability, worker's compensation, completed operations,
automobile, hazardous occupation, product liability and professional
liability, where applicable;



(D)   All provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act including wages,
medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for those covered in the
act;



(E)   The applicable provisions of the Illinois Human Rights Act and the
rules and regulations of the Illinois Human Rights Commission;



(F)   Adoption of the Sexual Harassment Policy;



(G)   Furnishing of required Performance and Payment Bonds;



(H)   Certificate of no delinquency in the payment of any tax administered
by the Illinois Department of Revenue;



(I)   Evidence the bidder has not only the financial responsibility but
also the ability to respond by the discharge of the contractor's obligations
in accordance with what is expected or demanded under the terms of the
contract.



(J)   Any and all documentation required by any bid specification for a
particular project.



(K)   No bidder shall be awarded a bid unless any debt owed to the City of
Flora, Illinois by the bidder or any of the successful bidder's affiliated
companies, corporations or other entities has been paid in full or
arrangements for payment of any debt have been made with the City of Flora.
Said debts shall include but not be limited to past due utility bills, loan
payments, or any other debt owed to the City of Flora by said bidder. If
awarded the bid, said bidder shall be subject to set off by the City for any
payments due and owing to the bidder from the City for the work to be
performed under the bid. The City may retain from any payments due and owing
from the City to the bidder said amounts owed by the bidder or portions
thereof. For purposes of this ordinance, and in the event the bidder is a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company or any other entity,
which is owned in whole or in part by said individual which owes money to the
City of Flora, such entity shall be subject to this ordinance.  (Ord.
07-2124, 12-17-2007; amd. Ord. 17-2936, 8-7-2017)



8-12-2:  PRIOR PERFORMANCE: 



The City of Flora when providing for a public contract for Public Works may
consider past performance and responsibility of the bidder in making a
determination as to whether said bidder is a "responsible bidder".  (Ord.
07-2124, 12-17-2007)



CHAPTER 13
TENNIS COURTS



8-13-1: USE OF TENNIS COURTS:



No person or persons shall use the city of Flora tennis courts for any other
purpose than the playing of tennis on said courts.  (Ord. 10-2367, 9-7-2010)



8-13-2:  NO TRESPASSING BY INDIVIDUALS USING BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, OTHER
HUMAN POWERED VEHICLES OR MOTORIZED VEHICLES:



No individual shall ride any bicycle, skateboard or other human powered
vehicle or motorized vehicle on said tennis courts owned by the city of
Flora, Illinois and located at 1010 East North Avenue, Flora, Illinois at any
time.  (Ord. 10-2367, 9-7-2010)



8-13-3: PENALTY:



Any person found guilty of violating any section of this chapter shall be
fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for any single offense exclusive of court costs. 
(Ord. 10-2367, 9-7-2010)



CHAPTER 14
SMALL CELL ANTENNA/TOWER
RIGHT-OF-WAY SITING



8-14-1:  DEFINITIONS:



For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.



 



ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE:
 
An existing pole or other structure within the public right-of-way that can
be used to support an antenna and is not a utility pole or a City of
Flora-owned infrastructure.


ANTENNA:
 
Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic radio
signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications services.


APPLICANT:
 
Any person or entity submitting an application to install personal wireless
telecommunication facilities or structures to support the facilities within a
public right-of-way.


CITY OF FLORA OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE:
 
Infrastructure in public right-of-way within the boundaries of the City of
Flora, including, but no limited to, streetlights, traffic signals, towers,
structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the City of Flora.


DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS):
 
A type of personal wireless telecommunication facility consisting of a
network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected to a common source via
a transport medium that provides wireless service within a geographic area.
Generally serves multiple carriers.


LANDSCAPE SCREENING:
 
The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes or other foliage
intended to screen the base of a personal wireless telecommunication facility
from public view.


MONOPOLE:
 
A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and used to
support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole, an
alternative antenna structure, or a City of Flora owned infrastructure.


PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA:
 
An antenna that is part of a personal wireless telecommunication facility.


PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT:
 
Equipment, exclusive of an antenna, that is part of wireless
telecommunications facility.


PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY:
 
An antenna, equipment, and related improvements used, or designed to be used,
to provide wireless transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or
other information including, but not limited to, cellular phone service,
personal communication service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.


SMALL CELL FACILITIES:
 
A Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility consisting of an antenna and
related equipment either installed singly or as part of a network to provide
coverage or enhance capacity in a limited defined area. Generally
single-service provider installation.


TOWER:
 
Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an
alternative antenna structure, or a City of Flora owned infrastructure.
Except as otherwise provided for by this Ordinance, the requirements for a
tower and associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this
Ordinance.


UTILITY POLE
 
An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables, telephone
cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are used to
provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.


VARIANCE or VARIATION:
 
A grant of relief by the City Administrator or a designee of the
administrator.


WI-FI ANTENNA:
 
An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access service based on
the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed spectrum to enable
communication between devices. (Ord. 18-2993, 6-18-2018)




 



8-14-2:  STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:



Personal wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed
in right-of- way within the jurisdiction of the City of Flora as attachments
to existing utility poles, alternative antenna structures, or City of Flora
owned infrastructure subject to the following regulations:



(A)   Number Limitation and Co-Location. The City Administrator or the
Superintendent of Public Services or their designee may regulate the number
of personal wireless telecommunications facilities allowed on each utility
pole or unit of City of Flora owned infrastructure. No more than two (2)
personal wireless telecommunications facilities will be permitted on utility
poles or Alternative Antenna Structure of ninety (90) feet or less. No more
than three (3) personal wireless telecommunications facilities will be
permitted on utility poles or Alternative Antenna Structures in excess of
ninety (90) feet and less than one-hundred and twenty (120) feet. This
Ordinance does not preclude or prohibit co-location of personal wireless
telecommunication facilities on towers or monopoles that meet the
requirements as set forth elsewhere in this section or as required by federal
law.



(B)   Separation and Clearance Requirements. Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a utility pole, alternative
antenna structure, monopole, or City of Flora owned infrastructure only where
such pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a distance
equal to one hundred (100) per cent of the height of such facility to any
residential building and no closer than three hundred (300) feet from any
other personal wireless telecommunication facility. A separation or lesser
clearance may be allowed by the City Administrator or administrator's
designee as an administrative variance to this Ordinance when the Applicant
establishes that the lesser separation or clearance is necessary to close a
significant coverage or capacity gap in the Applicant's services or to
otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed antenna or
facility is the least intrusive means to do so within the right-of-way.



(C)   City of Flora Owned Infrastructure. Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities can only be mounted to City of Flora owned
infrastructure including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic signal,
towers or buildings, if authorized by a license or other agreement between
the owner and the City of Flora.



(D)   New Towers. No new monopole or other tower to support personal
wireless telecommunication facilities in excess of sixty (60) feet is
permitted to be installed on right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the City
of Flora unless the City Council finds, based on clear and convincing
evidence provided by the applicant, that locating the personal wireless
telecommunications facilities on the right-of-way is necessary to close a
significant coverage or capacity gap in the Applicant's services or to
otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed new
monopole or other tower within the right-of-way is the least intrusive means
to do so.



(E)   Attachment Limitations. No personal wireless telecommunication
antenna or facility within the right-of-way will be attached to a utility
pole, alternative antenna structure, tower, or City of Flora owned
infrastructure unless all of the following conditions are satisfied:



   1.   Surface Area of Antenna: The personal wireless
telecommunication antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or
dish-shaped antennas, cannot have a surface area of more than seven (7) cubic
feet in volume.



   2.   Size of Above-Ground Personal Wireless Telecommunication
Facility: The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and
appurtenances comprising a personal wireless telecommunication facility,
exclusive of the antenna itself, cannot exceed thirty-two (32) cubic feet.



   3.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of
a personal wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible,
locate the base of the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower
than eight (8) feet above grade.



   4.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted
at Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or
appurtenances are to be installed at grade, screening must be installed to
minimize the visibility of the facility. Screening must be installed at least
three (3) feet from the equipment installed at-grade and eight (8) feet from
a roadway.



   5.   Height: The top of the highest point of the antenna cannot
extend more than seven (7) feet above the highest point of the utility pole,
alternative antenna support structure, tower or City of Flora owned
infrastructure. If necessary, the replacement or new utility pole,
alternative support structure or City of Flora owned infrastructure located
within the public right-of-way may be no more than ten to seventy (10-70)
feet higher than existing poles adjacent to the replacement or new pole or
structure, or no more than ninety (90) feet in height overall, whichever is
less.



   6.   Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility,
including all related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that
blends with the surroundings of the pole, structure tower or infrastructure
on which it is mounted and use non-reflective materials which blend with the
materials and colors of the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must
be covered with an appropriate cover.



   7.   Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna may include a radome, cap or other antenna panel covering or shield,
to the extent such covering would not result in a larger or more noticeable
facility and, if proposed, such covering must be of a color that blends with
the color of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted.



   8.   Wiring and Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to
the remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the
electrical code currently in effect. No wiring and cabling serving the
facility will be allowed to interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by
a cable television or video service operator, electric utility or telephone
utility.



   9.   Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility
must be grounded in accordance with the requirements of the electrical code
currently in effect in the City of Flora.



   10.   Guy Wires: No guy or other support wires will be used in
connection with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the
facility is to be attached to an existing utility pole, alternative antenna
support structure, tower or City of Flora owned infrastructure that
incorporated guy wires prior to the date that an applicant has applied for a
permit.



   11.   Pole Extensions: Extensions to utility poles, alternative
support structures, towers and City of Flora owned infrastructure utilized
for the purpose of connecting a personal wireless telecommunications antenna
and its related personal wireless telecommunications equipment must have a
degree of strength capable of supporting the antenna and any related
appurtenances and cabling and capable of withstanding wind forces and ice
loads in accordance with the applicable structural integrity standards as set
forth in 12 below. An extension must be securely bound to the utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower or City of Flora owned infrastructure in
accordance with applicable engineering standards for the design and
attachment of such extensions.



   12.   Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment
must be designed to withstand a wind force and ice loads in accordance with
applicable standards established in Chapter 25 of the National Electric
Safety Code for utility poles, Rule 250-B and 250-C standards governing wind,
ice, and loading forces on utility poles, in the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) in TIA/EIA Section 222-G established by the
Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) and the Electronics Industry
Association (EIA) for steel wireless support structures and the applicable
industry standard for other existing structures. For any facility attached to
City of Flora owned infrastructure or, in the discretion of the City of Flora
for a utility pole, tower, or alternative antenna structure, the operator of
the facility must provide the City of Flora with a structural evaluation of
each specific location containing a recommendation that the proposed
installation passes the standards described above. The evaluation must be
prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in the State of
Illinois.



   13.   The use of said location on any pole shall not interfere with
the City's use of said pole or the equipment thereon nor shall said users
cause interference with any third parties usage of said pole and equipment
located thereon. If interference is encountered, the Permittee shall take
immediate steps to remedy interference or remove its equipment from the pole.



(F)   Signage. Other than signs required by federal law or regulations, or
identification and location markings, installation of signs on a personal
wireless telecommunication facility is prohibited. In no event shall there be
advertising of any nature on said equipment.



(G)   Screening. If screening is required under Section (C)(4) above, it
must be natural landscaping material or a fence subject to the approval of
the City of Flora and must comply with all regulations of the City of Flora.
Appropriate landscaping must be located and maintained and must provide the
maximum achievable screening, as determined by the City of Flora from view of
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than nine (9) feet in
height. Landscape screening when permitted in the right-of-way must be
provided with a clearance of three (3) feet in all directions from the
facility. The color of housing for ground-mounted equipment must blend with
the surroundings. For a covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable
screening must be provided between such facility and the view from adjoining
properties and public or private streets. In lieu of the operator installing
the screening, the City of Flora at its sole discretion, may accept a fee
from the operator of the facility for the acquisition, installation, or
maintenance of landscaping material by the City of Flora.



(H)   Permission to Use Utility Pole or Alterative Antenna Structure. The
operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility must submit to the
City of Flora written copies of the approval from the owner of a utility
pole, monopole, or an alternative antenna structure, to mount the personal
wireless telecommunication facility on that specific pole, tower, or
structure, prior to issuance of the City of Flora permit.



(I)   Licenses and Permits. The operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility must verify to the City of Flora that it has
received all concurrent licenses and permits required by other agencies and
governments with jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and
operation of said facility have been obtained and will be maintained within
the corporate limits of the City of Flora.



(J)   Variance Requirements. Each location of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility within a right-of-way must meet all of the
requirements of this Ordinance, as well as all of the other ordinances
applicable thereto of the City of Flora, unless a variance may be obtained
upon a showing of good cause. Said request for a variance shall be made to
the Superintendant of Public Services and approved by the City Administrator.



(K)   Abandonment and Removal. Any personal wireless telecommunication
facility located within the corporate limits of the City of Flora that is not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, shall be considered
abandoned and the owner of the facility must remove same within ninety (90)
days of receipt of written notice from the City of Flora notifying the owner
of such abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered
mail, return-receipt-requested, by the City of Flora to such owner at the
last known address of such owner. In the case of personal wireless
telecommunication facilities attached to City of Flora owned infrastructure,
if such facility is not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice, the
City of Flora may remove or cause the removal of such facility through the
terms of the applicable license agreement or through whatever actions are
provided by law for removal and cost recovery. (Ord. 18-2993, 6-18-2018)



8-14-3:  PERMITS, APPLICATION FEES AND PROCEDURES:



(A)   Permits for placement of personal wireless telecommunication
facilities in a right-of-way within the City of Flora are required. Except as
otherwise provided for by this Ordinance, the procedures for the application
for, approval of, and revocation of such a permit must be in compliance with
City of Flora permit application requirements. Said application shall be
developed and maintained by the Superintedent of Public Services. All
application submitted for consideration must demonstrate compliance with the
requirements of this section and this Ordinance.



(B)   Upon submittal of the application, the City of Flora shall process
the application and within one-hundred twenty (120) days from the date of
application provide either the permit or denial for new poles. Within ninety
(90) days after submittal of an application the City shall provide either the
permit or denial for a collation on existing poles.



(C)   The City to Flora may reserve sufficient space on its poles for
future electric for public safety purposes which shall take precedence over
any application for a permit.



(D)   Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by the following
permit fees:



      1.   For a new pole One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00);



      2.   For a single collocation on existing pole Six Hundred
Fifty Dollars ($650.00);



      3.   For a bundled application on an existing pole Three
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($350.00). All fees are per pole.



(E)   If a permit is issued, thereafter the Permittee shall pay an annual
fee of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) per pole attachment. The first annual
fee shall be due and payable within thirty (30) days after issuance of a
permit by the City and on annual basis thereafter. The City shall provide a
statement for the annual fees for the poles and the same shall be paid by the
Permittee within twenty-one (21) days thereafter.



(F)   Failure to pay any of the fees set forth hereinabove shall
automatically terminate the permit under the terms and conditions of this
Ordinance.  (Ord. 18-2993, 6-18-2018)



8-14-4:  CONFLICT OF LAWS: 



Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this Chapter regarding the
siting and installation of personal wireless telecommunication facilities are
more restrictive than comparable conditions imposed elsewhere in any other
local law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, the regulations of this
Ordinance will govern. Also, where there is a conflict between this Ordinance
and any other City Ordinances or operating procedures, this Ordinance shall
govern. (Ord. 18-2993, 6-18-2018)



TITLE 9
TRAFFIC



CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS



9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:




Terms used in this title shall mean:





PARKING METER ZONES: Streets or portions of streets described and established
as zones within which the parking of vehicles is controlled, regulated and
inspected with the aid of timing devices or parking meters.





SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines and adjacent
property lines.





STREET: Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway or other way for
public travel located in the city and established for the use of vehicles.





VEHICLE: Any device or conveyance, in, or upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported upon a street or highway. A bicycle or
motor bicycle is a vehicle. (1956 Code, Sec. 21.01)




9-1-2: COMPLIANCE WITH POLICE DIRECTIONS:




Drivers of motor vehicles shall at all times comply with any traffic
directions of any member of the police force or the mayor or any commissioner
as to stopping, starting, approaching and departing from any place, and the
manner of taking up or discharging passengers, or of loading and unloading
goods in any place 1 . (1956 Code, Sec. 21.02)




9-1-3: RIGHT OF WAY, EMERGENCY VEHICLES:



The driver of any vehicle of the police department or the fire department, or
of any ambulance, when responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a
red or stop signal or any stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety
but may proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At other
times drivers of such emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop
sign or signal. Upon the approach of such emergency vehicle, when the driver
is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of
every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall immediately drive
to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the right hand edge or
curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in
such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer 2 . (1956 Code, Sec. 21.03)



9-1-4: PASSING AND TURNING:



(A)   All drivers of motor vehicles shall keep as near to the right hand
curb as possible; they shall on meeting another vehicle, keep to the right;
in passing another vehicle going in the same direction, they shall pass to
the left; in turning from one street into another to the right, they shall
turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible. No driver of any
motor vehicle shall permit his vehicle to so occupy the street, or any part
thereof, as to interfere with or intercept the passage of other vehicles.
(1956 Code, Sec. 21.04)



(B)   No operator of a motor vehicle shall make a U turn, so that vehicle
is turned around to travel in the opposite direction on North Avenue in the
city. (Ord. 84-664, 8-20-1984)



9-1-5: RECKLESS DRIVING; INTOXICATION:



(A)   No person shall drive any vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard
for the safety of persons or property.



(B)   No person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs or who is under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs shall drive any
vehicle within the city.



(C)   Any person who violates any provision of subsection (A) of this
section shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Any
person who violates any provision of subsection (B) of this section shall be
punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense 13 . (1956 Code, Sec.
21.05)



9-1-6: HITCHING RIDES:



No person, while riding any bicycle, tricycle or motorcycle shall hold onto
any other moving motor vehicle, on any public street or highway. No person
shall jump on, or attempt to jump on, any moving motor vehicle being operated
in or on any public street in the city. (1956 Code, Sec. 21.06)



9-1-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:



(A)   Signals: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
disobey the instructions of any traffic signal placed in view by authority of
the city council or in accordance with the laws of the state, excepting on
direction of a police officer. All signals established by direction of the
city council shall conform to the state manual of uniform traffic control
devices for streets and highways in force at the time of erection of such
signals, and as amended. (Ord. 73-163, 3-5-1973)



Traffic light signals are hereby established at the intersections of North
Avenue and Main Street and East North Avenue and Mill Street. (Ord. 77-360,
11-28-1977)



(B)   Traffic Control Signal Legend: Whenever traffic is controlled by
traffic control signals exhibiting the words "Go", "Caution" or "Stop", or
exhibiting different colored lights successively, the following colors only
shall be used and said terms and lights shall indicate as follows:



1. Green alone or "Go":



(a) Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or turn
right or left. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such
signal is exhibited.



(b) Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.



2. Yellow or "Caution" when shown with or following the green or "Go" signal:



(a) Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.



(b) Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting
across shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.



3. Red alone or "Stop":



(a) Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or
"Go" is shown alone, except that vehicular traffic in the lane immediately
adjacent to the curb after coming to a complete stop may proceed cautiously
into the intersection to make a right turn yielding the right of way to
vehicles from the left which are within the intersection or approaching so
close as to constitute an immediate hazard and yielding to pedestrians in the
intersection.



(b) No pedestrian facing said signal shall enter the roadway.



(C)   Flashing Signals: Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used
they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:



1. Flashing red (stop signal): When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall
be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.



2. Flashing yellow (caution signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.



(D)   Exemptions: The provisions of this section regulating the movement
of vehicles shall not apply to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
when responding to an emergency call, but such driver upon approaching a red
or stop signal shall slow down as necessary for safety but may proceed
cautiously past such red or stop signal. At other times drivers of authorized
emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop signal. No driver of any
authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special privileges under this
section except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call
or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law 1 .
(Ord. 73-163, 3-5-1973)



9-1-8: CAUTION SIGNS, SCHOOL:



(A)   The director of public works is hereby directed to erect and
maintain school caution signs at the approaches to such intersections as may
be designated by council action including pedestrian cross walks.



(B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a school caution sign during
school hours on school days shall slow the vehicle to a speed of not more
than twenty (20) miles per hour and drive cautiously through the area so
designated as a school zone.



(1956 Code, Sec. 21.12) (Ord. 15-2713, 8-17-2015)



9-1-9: TRACTORS:



No person shall run across, along or upon any of the paved streets in the
city, any traction engine, without using sound, strong planks, as wide as the
wheels of the engine. Two (2) of the planks shall be kept continuously under
the wheels of the engine, while upon the pavement, in such manner as to keep
the wheels from touching the pavement. (1956 Code, Sec. 21.28)



9-1-10: TRAINS:



(A)   No person shall run any train, locomotive engine or car in the city
at a speed exceeding forty five (45) miles per hour.



(B)   No person shall obstruct any street or highway within the city with
any locomotive engine, or cars, or freight except for the purpose of
receiving or discharging passengers or freight, or for taking in, or for
setting out cars, or to receive the necessary fuel or water, and in no case
to exceed ten (10) minutes. (1956 Code, Sec. 21.29)



9-1-11: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:



It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle of any type on any street not
under the jurisdiction of the state of Illinois, within the city of Flora,
Illinois at a speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour, or in any
alleyway at a speed in excess of ten (10) miles per hour, unless the speed
restrictions are set forth differently as described hereinbelow.



(A)   It shall be unlawful during the months of June, July and August of
each year to drive any motor vehicle on East Drive between Austin Avenue and
South Stanford Road at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour 1 .



(B)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any roadway
within Charley Brown Memorial Park at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles
per hour unless posted otherwise 1 .



(C)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on the following
roadways within the city of Flora, Illinois at a speed in excess of twenty
five (25) miles per hour:



   1.   East 12th Street from North Main Street to Olive Street.



   2.   Main Street from Washington Street to 5th Street.



   3.   North Avenue from Olive Street to Presley Street.



   4.   West Street from West 6th Street to West 8th Street.



   5.   Worthey Street from the intersection of Worthey Street and W.
North Avenue to Worthey Street and Highway 50/45.



(D)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on Meadowview Drive
within the city of Flora, Illinois, at a speed in excess of fifteen (15)
miles per hour.



(E)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motorcycle in excess of forty five
(45) miles per hour from the eastern boundary of the city limits of the city
of Flora, Illinois, on Old Route 50 to Airport Road.



(F)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of thirty five (35) miles per hour on Old Route 50 from Airport Road to the
existing thirty (30) mile per hour speed limit North Vincennes Avenue on Old
Route 50.



(G)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of twenty (20) miles per hour on Industrial Drive from its intersection at
Vincennes Avenue to its intersection at Briscoe Drive and Commercial Drive
from its intersection at Vincennes Avenue to its intersection at Briscoe
Drive.



(H)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of forty (40) miles per hour on Camelia Road within the city of Flora,
Illinois.



(I)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed of more
than 20 miles per hour (mph) in an area designated as a school zone during
school hours within the city of Flora and the school zone areas are
designated as follows:



   1.   Emory Street from the intersection with Vincennes Avenue to the
intersection with Flora Avenue.



   2.   East Third Street from the intersection with North Olive to the
intersection with Oak Street.



   3.   Olive Street from the intersection with East Third Street to
the intersection with East North Avenue.



   4.   East North Avenue from the intersection with North Olive to the
intersection with Oak Street.



   5.   Oak Street from the intersection with East North Avenue to the
intersection with East Third Street.



   6.   Washington Street from the intersection with South Main Street
to the intersection with South Mill Street.



   7.   South Main Street from the intersection of Washington Street to
the intersection with Flora Avenue.



   8.   Flora Avenue from the intersection with South Main Street to
the intersection with South Mill Street.



   9.   South Mill Street from the intersection of Washington Street to
the intersection with Flora Avenue.



   10.   North Stanford from the intersection with East Third Street to
the intersection with U.S. Route 45 and 50.



(J) - (L)   Left blank intentionally.



(M)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of ten (10) miles per hour on any roadway located within Elmwood Cemetery in
the City of Flora, Illinois.




(Ord. 13-2579, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 15-2705, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 18-2988,
6-4-2018)




9-1-12: TWO-WHEELED MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED:



It shall be unlawful to drive any two-wheeled motor vehicle in the Charley
Brown memorial park of the city of Flora, other than on the roadways in said
park, except that this section shall not apply to any two-wheeled motor
vehicle events conducted by the Clay County Fair Association during its
annual county fair upon lands used by said association in said park. (Ord.
78-393, 4-1978)



9-1-13: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:



The said Illinois vehicle code as it presently exists or may hereafter be
amended shall by reference become a part of this chapter. (Ord. 87-850,
7-6-1987)



9-1-14: PEDESTRIAN RIGHT OF WAY:



All drivers of motor vehicles shall yield the right of way to pedestrians who
are in pedestrian crosswalks, so designated and marked on any public street
in the city limits of the city of Flora, Illinois. Any person convicted of
violating this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord.
04-1836, 4-5-2004, eff. 5-5-2004)



9-1-15:   RESTRICTIONS ON SEMI-TRUCK TRAFFIC: 



The city of Flora from time to time may restrict semi-truck traffic and
prohibit the same on certain roadways and streets within the city.  The city
shall by resolution or ordinance indicate the street being restricted or
prohibited for semi-truck traffic.  The city administrator shall cause to be
posted signs restricting or prohibiting semi-truck traffic on said roads and
streets within the city.  (Ord. 09-2223, 3-16-2009)



9-1-16:  NO PARKING - FIRE LANES: 



There shall be no parking allowed in any designated fire lanes for commercial
facilities or industrial facilities within the city of Flora, Illinois,
unless said parking is by fire department personnel or emergency services
personnel rendering emergency services.  Said fire lanes must be so
designated as "no parking area" or "fire lane".  Any person convicted of
violating this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).  (Ord.
10-2311, 2-1-2010)



 


Notes

1 
625 ILCS 5/11-203.

2 
625 ILCS 5/11-205, 5/11-907, 5/12-120.

13 
625 ILCS 5/11-501, 5/11-503.

1 
625 ILCS 5/11-301 et seq.

1 
625 ILCS.

1 
1.  625 ILCS.



CHAPTER 2
STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS



9-2-1: ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS:



The commissioner of streets and public improvements is directed to erect
signs indicating one-way traffic on such streets as designated by council
action. When signs are so placed, no person shall drive a vehicle on any of
the designated streets or alleys except in the direction indicated:



200 block of Lincoln Avenue between Locust Street and Mill Street with the
traffic flow from the west to the east.



The alley located between North Avenue and Second Street between Elm Street
on the west and Sycamore Street on the east with traffic flow from west to
east.



College Street and Karr Street with traffic flow from the north to the south
on Karr Street continuing one-way to the intersection with College Street
then traffic flow south to north along College Street.



Foster Street from East North Avenue to 2nd Street with traffic flow from
south to north.



The alley located between the 100 block of East 2nd Street and the 100 block
of East 3rd Street in the city with traffic flow from the east entrance of
said alleyway being located on Locust Street to the west.



(1956 Code, Sec. 21.07; amd. Ord. 81-522, 2-16-1981; Ord. 85-726, 7-1-1985;
Ord. 94-1196, 4-18-1994; Ord. 94-1218, 8-15-1994; Ord. 99-1523, 8-16-1999)



9-2-2: STOP STREETS:



The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto,
and shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop
which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a
police officer on duty, in which event the directions of the police officer
shall be complied with. The commissioner of streets and public improvements
is authorized and directed to erect and maintain stop signs at the following
intersections, as indicated:



Through Street      Stop Street (Signs Facing)




Austin Avenue   at   Adams Avenue





Austin Avenue   at   East Drive





Austin Avenue   at   East Lincoln Avenue





Austin Avenue   at   Fair Avenue





Austin Avenue   at   Fairview Avenue





Austin Avenue   at   Holman Street





Austin Avenue   at   Illinois Street





Austin Avenue   at   Lakeside Avenue





Austin Avenue   at   Park Avenue





Austin Avenue   at   Scudamore Avenue





Austin Avenue   at   Washington Avenue





Camelia Road   at   Granger Boulevard (westbound)





Camelia Road   at   West Fourth Street (westbound)





Campbell Street   at   Third Street





Carrie Street   at   Seventh Street





Cherry Lane   at   Fair Avenue





Cherry Lane   at   Field Avenue





Cherry Lane   at   Flora Avenue





College Street   at   Ruth Avenue





Commercial Drive   at   Briscoe Drive (westbound)





Commercial Drive   at   Briscoe Drive (eastbound)





East Drive   at   Cherry Lane





East Drive   at   Martain Street





East Fifth Street   at   North Locust Street





East Fourth Street   at   North Locust Street





East North Avenue   at   Meyer Street





East North Avenue   at   Oak Street





East North Avenue   at   Olive Street





East North Avenue   at   Shady Avenue





East North Avenue   at   Stanford Township Road





East North Avenue   at   Sycamore Street





East North Avenue   at   Willow Street





East Second Street   at   Foster Street, north side





East Second Street   at   Locust Street





East Second Street   at   Sycamore Street





East Seventh Street   at   North Locust Street





East Seventh Street   at   North Sycamore Street





East Shaylee Drive   at   West Fourth Street (westbound)





East Shaylee Drive   at   West Fourth Street (eastbound)





East Third Street   at   An alleyway running from East
      North Avenue to East Third
      Street between the Lewis and
      Parson's and the A.H. Meyer's
      subdivisions in the city





East Third Street   at   Foster Street





East Third Street   at   North Locust Street





East Twelfth Street   at   Circle Drive





East Twelfth Street   at   Clan Street





East Twelfth Street   at   Lamson Street





East Twelfth Street   at   North Locust Street





East Twelfth Street   at   North Sycamore Street





East Twelfth Street   at   Rider Street





East Twelfth Street   at   Sunset Drive (both intersections)





Eighth Street   at   Carrie Street





Eighth Street   at   Clan Street





Eighth Street   at   Lamson Street





Eighth Street   at   Rider Street





Eighth Street   at   Seminary Street





Eighth Street   at   Skyline Drive





Eighth Street   at   West Street





Elm Street   at   Railroad Street





Emory Street   at   Holman Street





Emory Street   at   Lincoln Avenue





Fairview Avenue   at   Locust Street





Fairview Avenue   at   Orchard Avenue, north side





Field Avenue   at   Martain Street





Foster Street   at   Fifth Street, west side





Foster Street   at   Sixth Street, west side





Fourth Street   at   Foster Street





Fourth Street   at   Oak Street





Karr Street   at   Ruth Avenue





Locust Street   at   Adams Avenue





Locust Street   at   Eighth Street





Locust Street   at   Fair Avenue





Locust Street   at   Ninth Street





Locust Street   at   Park Avenue





Locust Street   at   Railroad Street





Locust Street   at   Scudamore Avenue





Locust Street   at   Tenth Street





Maple Street   at   Elm Street





Maple Street   at   Smith Avenue





Maple Street   at   Sycamore Street, north side





Mill Street   at   Fourth Street





Mill Street   at   Illinois Street





Mill Street   at   Lincoln Avenue





Mill Street   at   Maple Street





Mill Street   at   Railroad Street





Mill Street   at   Second Street





Mill Street   at   South Avenue





Mill Street   at   Third Street





Mill Street   at   Vincennes Avenue





Mill Street    at   Vincennes Avenue
(south and eastbound       (eastbound lane only)
  traffic on Mill Street and
  Vincennes Avenue)





Mill Street   at   Vincennes Avenue
(southbound traffic cross-       (northbound traffic on
  ing Vincennes Avenue)      Mill Street)





Natchez Trace   at   Heritage Park





North Elm Street   at   Fifth Street, east side





North Elm Street   at   Fourth Street





North Main Street   at   Eighth Street





North Main Street   at   Fifth Street





North Main Street   at   Fourth Street





North Main Street   at   Ninth Street





North Main Street   at   North State Street





North Main Street   at   Second Street





North Main Street   at   Seventh Street





North Main Street   at   Sixth Street





North Main Street   at   Tenth Street





North Main Street   at   Third Street





North Mill Street   at   East Fifth Street





North Mill Street   at   East Seventh Street





North Mill Street   at   East Sixth Street





North Mill Street   at   Jefferson Street





North Olive   at   Natchez Trace





North Olive Street   at   The west end of Parson's Lane





North Stanford Street   at   Third Street





North State Street   at   North Elm Street





North State Street   at   Seventh Street





North State Street   at   Thirteenth Street





North State Street   at   Twelfth Street





North State Street   at   West Eighth Street





North State Street   at   West Second Street





North Worthey   at   West 3rd Street (eastbound and westbound)





North Worthey   at   West 6th Street (eastbound and westbound)





North Worthey   at   West 7th Street (eastbound)





North Worthey   at   Douglas Street (eastbound)





North Worthey   at   West 12th Street (eastbound and  westbound)





Olive Street   at   Birchwood Avenue





Olive Street   at   East Fourth Street





Olive Street   at   East Second Street





Olive Street   at   East Twelfth Street





Olive Street   at   Holly Lane





Olive Street   at   Martha Lane





Olive Street   at   McCawley Boulevard





Olive Street   at   Raintree Trace





Olive Street   at   Shadwell Street





Olive Street   at   Tenth Street





Orchard Avenue   at   Adams Avenue





Orchard Avenue   at   Park Avenue





Orchard Avenue   at   Scudamore Avenue





Presley Avenue   at   Fourth Street





Presley Avenue   at   West Second Avenue





Railroad Street   at   Sycamore Street





Rider Street   at   Hickory





Rio Grande Avenue   at   Maple Street





Rio Grande Avenue   at   South Avenue





Second Street   at   West Street





Seminary Street   at   Douglas Street





Seminary Street   at   Fourth Street





Seminary Street   at   Second Street





Seminary Street   at   Seventh Street





Seminary Street   at   Sixth Street





Shadwell Street   at   Sylvia Avenue





Shaylee Drive    at   West 4th Street (westbound)





Shaylee Drive   at   West 4th Street (eastbound)





Sixth Street   at   Locust Street





South Avenue   at   Elm Street





South Avenue   at   Smith Avenue





South Avenue   at   Sycamore Street





South Locust Street   at   East Flora Avenue





South Locust Street   at   East Maple Street





South Locust Street   at   Lincoln Avenue





South Locust Street   at   Short Street





South Locust Street   at   South Avenue





South Main Street   at   Adams Avenue





South Main Street   at   Fair Avenue





South Main Street   at   Fairview Avenue





South Main Street   at   Flora Avenue





South Main Street   at   Lincoln Avenue





South Main Street   at   Maple Street





South Main Street   at   Park Avenue





South Main Street   at   Railroad Street





South Main Street   at   Scudamore Avenue





South Main Street   at   Short Street





South Main Street   at   South Avenue





South Main Street   at   Washington Avenue





South Mill Street   at   East Washington Avenue





South Orchard Street   at   Fair Avenue





South Stanford Road   at   East Drive





South State Street   at   Maple Street





South State Street   at   Scudamore Avenue





South State Street   at   Walnut Street





South State Street   at   Washington Avenue





Stanford Road   at   Meadowview Drive





State Street   at   Sixth Street, east side





Sycamore Street   at   Eighth Street





Sycamore Street   at   Fifth Street





Sycamore Street   at   Fourth Street





Sycamore Street   at   Jefferson Avenue





Sycamore Street   at   Ninth Street





Sycamore Street   at   Sixth Street





Sycamore Street   at   Tenth Street





Sylvia Street   at   Birchwood Avenue





Sylvia Street   at   Fourth Street





Tenth Street   at   Twin Oaks Drive





Third Street   at   Meyer Street





Third Street   at   Shady Avenue





Third Street   at   Sycamore Street





Third Street   at   Sylvia Avenue





Third Street   at   Thomas Street, south side





Third Street   at   Willow Street





Twelfth Street   at   Twin Oaks Drive





U.S. Route 45   at   Eash Road





U.S. Route 45   at   Vincennes Avenue





Vincennes Avenue   at   Austin Avenue





Vincennes Avenue   at   College Street





Vincennes Avenue   at   Emory Street





Vincennes Avenue   at   Karr Street





Vincennes Avenue   at   Meadowview Drive





Vincennes Avenue   at   South Stanford Road





Vincennes Avenue   at   Valbert Street





Washington Avenue   at   Alley located between Elm Street
       and South Main Street





Washington Avenue   at   Elm Street





West Fourth Street   at   Campbell Street





West Fourth Street   at   Greenlaw Avenue





West Fourth Street   at   Summer Street (northbound)





West North Avenue   at   Campbell Street





West North Avenue   at   Elm Street





West North Avenue   at   Presley Avenue





West North Avenue   at   Rio Grande Avenue





West North Avenue   at   Seminary Street





West North Avenue   at   Smith Avenue





West North Avenue    at   South Greenlaw Boulevard





West North Avenue   at   State Street





West North Avenue   at   Thomas Street





West North Avenue   at   West Street





West North Avenue   at   Worthy Street





West Second Street   at   North Elm Street





West Street   at   Fifth Street





West Street   at   Fourth Street





West Street   at   Seventh Street





West Street   at   Sixth Street, west side





West Third Street   at   Campbell Avenue





West Third Street   at   North Elm Street





West Third Street   at   Presley Avenue





West Third Street   at   West Street





West Fourth Street   at   West Shaylee Drive (northbound)





Worthy Street   at   Eighth Street





Worthy Street   at   Fifth Street





Worthy Street   at   Fourth Street





Worthy Street   at   Maple Street





Worthy Street   at   Seventh Street





Worthy Street   at   South Avenue





Worthy Street   at   West Fifth Street




(Ord. 73-156, 1-15-1973; Ord. 74-209, 5-20-1974; Ord. 74-223, 9-16-1974; Ord.
77-365, 12-5-1977; Ord. 77-630, 11-28-1977; Ord. 78-417, 12-18-1979; Ord.
81-555, 9-8-1981; Ord. 83-592, 2-7-1983; Ord. 83-594, 2-28-1983; Ord. 85-759,
12-9-1985; Ord. 86-768, 2-18-1986; Ord. 97-1361, 5-5-1997; Ord. 97-1392,
11-3-1997; Ord. 00-1568, 1-17-2000; Ord. 00-1573, 2-21-2000; Ord. 01-1679,
9-4-2001; Ord. 03-1822, 12-1-2003; 10-2320, 3-15-2010; Ord. 10-2341,
5-17-2010; Ord. 10-2361, 8-16-2010; Ord. 11-2396, 2-22-2011; Ord. 12-2474, 2-
21-2012; Ord. 12-2475, 2-21-2012; Ord. 13-2580, 8-5-2013; Ord. 15-2726,
11-2-2015)



9-2-3: FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS:




The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where stop signs are erected at all entrances thereto, unless
traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty, in
which event the directions of the police officer shall be complied with. The
commissioner of streets and public improvements is authorized and directed to
erect and maintain stop signs at all entrances to the following intersections:




Austin Avenue and Flora Avenue



East Third and Olive Streets



East Washington Avenue and South Locust Street



Locust Street and Flora Avenue



Seminary and Fourth Streets



South Orchard Street and South Mill Street and Flora Avenue



Vincennes Avenue and Stanford Road



West Second Street and North State Street



West Third and North State



West Third and Seminary Streets




(Ord. 73-156, 1-5-1973; amd. Ord. 74-209, 5-20-1974; Ord. 74-223, 9-16-1974;
Ord. 81-521, 2-16-1981; Ord. 84-665, 8-20-1984; Ord. 03-1799, 7-7-2003; Ord.
03-1818, 11-3-2003; Ord 13-2580, 8-5-2013; Ord. 16-2790, 11-7-2016)




9-2-4: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY INTERSECTIONS:



The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way in obedience to a yield
right of way sign at an intersection where such sign is erected at one or
more entrances thereto, and shall reduce the speed of his vehicle to not more
than fifteen (15) miles per hour and shall proceed cautiously yielding to the
vehicles not so obliged to yield the right of way which are within the
intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police officer on
duty, in which event the directions of the police officer shall be complied
with. The driver having so yielded may proceed when he can do so with safety.
The commissioner of streets and public improvements is authorized and
directed to erect and maintain yield right of way signs at the following
intersections, as indicated:



Through Street   Yield Street (Signs Facing)




Austin Avenue   Maxine Street





Birchwood Avenue   Price Street





Clan Street   Ninth Street





Fairview Avenue   Orchard Avenue, south side





Foster Street   Fifth Street, east side





Foster Street   Seventh Street, east side





Foster Street   Sixth Street, east side





Fourth Street   Cardinal Street





Fourth Street   Thomas Street





Hickory Street   Skyline Drive





Illinois Street   Valbert Street





Locust Street   Eleventh Street





Maple Street   South Sycamore Street,
       south side





Martha Lane   Oak Street





Maxine Street   Valbert Street, both sides





Mill Street   Maxine Street





Seventh Street   Ebner Street





Shadwell Avenue   Price Street





State Street   Fifth Street, west side





State Street   Sixth Street, west side





Sycamore Street   Eleventh Street





Third Street   Bible Street





Third Street   Cardinal Street





Third Street   Thomas Street, north side





West Street   Sixth Street, west side





West Washington Avenue   Walnut Street





(Ord. 73-156, 1-15-1973)




9-2-5: LOAD LIMITS:



(A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on Holly Lane in the
city when the gross load weight exceeds twenty thousand (20,000) pounds;
provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to school buses,
moving vans, state, county or municipally owned vehicles and any vehicle used
in the maintenance or repair of said Holly Lane. (Ord. 80-510, 11-3-1980)



(B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on Stanford Road from
East North Avenue to U.S. Route 50 in the city when the gross load weight
exceeds ten thousand (10,000) pounds; provided, however, that this subsection
shall not apply to school buses, state, county or municipally owned vehicles
and any vehicle used in the maintenance or repair of said Stanford Road.
(Ord. 82-586, 12-6-1982)



(C)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle unladen or with load on
Olive Street from East North Avenue to Twelfth Street in the city when its
gross weight exceeds ten thousand (10,000) pounds; provided, however, that
this subsection shall not apply to school buses, state, county or municipally
owned vehicles or for any vehicle making a delivery or picking up a load, in
which case, the vehicle may be driven on said street for not more than the
minimum distance necessary for the purpose. (Ord. 90-1051, 8-6-1990)



(D)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle unladen or with load on
Given Drive in the city when its gross weight exceeds ten thousand (10,000)
pounds; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to school
buses, state, county or municipally owned vehicles or any vehicle making a
delivery or picking up a load, in which case, the vehicle may be driven on
said street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for said
purpose. (Ord. 93-1153, 3-15-1993)



(E)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on North Worthey Street
from the intersection of North Worthey Street and Mimosa Lane southerly 1,120
feet when the gross load weight exceeds 6,000 pounds.  (Ord. 07-2108,
10-1-2007)



9-2-6: TURNING RESTRICTIONS:



(A)   At the intersection of Main Street and North Avenue, the
commissioner of streets and public improvements is authorized, empowered and
directed to establish left turn only lanes at each corner of said
intersection and to establish a right hand lane to be used by traffic moving
across the intersection for right turns at said intersection. A vehicle
entering the intersection of Main Street and North Avenue intending to turn
left must approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully
available for traffic moving in the direction of such vehicle. All other
vehicles entering the intersection of Main Street and North Avenue shall use
the right hand lane.



(B)   It shall be unlawful for any truck with multiple units or having a
wheelbase in excess of forty feet (40') (semitrailer combinations) to make a
right turn at the intersection of Main Street and North Avenue.



(C)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to enter the
intersection of Main Street and North Avenue in a lane other than that
designated for travel in the direction in which he intends to proceed. It
shall further be unlawful to disobey any signs placed pursuant to this
section, except at the direction of the mayor, a police officer or fireman or
commissioner of the city. (Ord. 83-630, 10-12-1983)



9-2-7:  STREET CLOSURES: 



The chief of police of the city of Flora is hereby authorized to accept
requests to close city streets for individuals or community groups providing
a community function. Said closure may be allowed by the chief of police for
a non-major thoroughfare in the city of Flora, Illinois and when the closure
of said street shall be of a duration no longer than 24 continuous hours. In
the absence of the chief of police, the assistant chief of police may allow
such closures. 



(Ord. 07-2091, 8-6-2007)



CHAPTER 3
PARKING AND PARKING METERS



9-3-1: PARKING REGULATIONS:



(A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of the lawful
traffic movement and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within twelve
inches (12") of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as may be otherwise
provided by ordinance.



(B)   No person shall park a vehicle a less distance of ten feet (10')
from any fire hydrant.



(C)   No person shall park a vehicle on a sidewalk, in front of a public
or private driveway, within an intersection or on a crosswalk, or on the
roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a street.



(D)   No person shall leave any vehicle standing unattended with the
engine running1. (1956 Code, Sec. 21.13)



(Amd. Ord. 08-2171, 8-4-2008)



9-3-2: PARALLEL PARKING:



The commissioner of streets and public improvements is directed to erect
signs for parallel parking upon streets at certain areas designated by
council action. Vehicles parked in such areas shall be parallel with the curb
or edge of such street and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle
within twelve inches (12") of the regularly established curb line or edge of
the street. (Ord. 70-96, 9-21-1970)



9-3-3: PARKING IN ALLEYS, UPON RAILROAD STREET:



No person shall park any vehicle in the alley which runs east and west
between North Avenue and Second Street from Sycamore Street to the right of
way of the Baltimore and Ohio Southwestern Railroad Company, Springfield
division, or upon Railroad Street for a longer period of time than is
necessary to load or unload merchandise, freight or farm commodities at the
rear entrances of the buildings abutting on said alley and said street. (Ord.
66-26, 12-27-1966)



9-3-4: NO PARKING ZONES:



(A)   Parking shall be prohibited or restricted at certain zones or areas
of the city, when signs are posted or markings painted on the street or
sidewalk, indicating no parking.



(B)   No vehicle shall be parked upon the following streets:



West side of South Locust Street from East Flora Avenue to East Washington
Avenue; east side of North Locust Street from Third Avenue to the alley
between Second Street and Third Street. (Ord. 66-26, 12-27-1966; amd. Ord.
73-158, 1-15-1973)



East side of South Main Street between Park Avenue and Flora Avenue.



East side of North Mill Street between East North Avenue and the alley
between East North Avenue and East Second Street.



On the north side of East North Avenue between the point marking the
intersection of East North Avenue with the east side of North Locust and a
point one hundred thirty feet (130') east thereof.



On the south side of West North Avenue between the point marking the
intersection of State Road with the south side of West North Avenue and a
point three hundred ninety feet (390') west thereof; on the north side of
West North Avenue between the point marking the intersection of West North
Avenue with the east side of West Corporation Line Road and a point two
hundred feet (200') east thereof.



South side of West Third Street between right of way of the Baltimore and
Ohio Southwestern Railroad Company, Springfield division, and North Elm
Street; south side of East Third Street between North Locust Street and North
Sycamore Street.



Olive Street from East North Avenue to East Third Street.



That area adjacent and parallel to the south curb of East North Avenue lying
between the east curbing of the entrance to the United States post office and
the west curbing of the entrance to the Southern Illinois Lumber Company,
said zone to encompass an approximate area of fifty five feet by twelve feet
(55' x 12').



South side of West Fourth Street between Seminary Street and West Street.



East side of North Elm Street between Second Street and Third Street.



East side of Sycamore Street from East North Avenue to Second Street.



South Stanford Avenue between East North Avenue and Vincennes Avenue. (Ord.
66-26, 12-27-1966)



Upon Olive Street from Shadwell Street to Third Street. (Ord. 70-96,
9-21-1970)



Upon South Locust Street from South Avenue to Washington Street. (Ord. 70-96,
9-21-1970; amd. Ord. 98-1463, 11-16-1998)



East side and west side of South Main Street between South Avenue and Fair
Avenue.



That area adjacent and parallel to the north curb of East North Avenue lying
between a point eleven and five-tenths feet (11.5') east of the center line
of North Sycamore Street and a point one hundred twenty six feet (126') east
thereof and the adjacent semicircular drive to the north thereof located
between said north curb and the sidewalk. (Ord. 73-158, 1-18-1973)



North side of Lincoln Avenue between South Mill Street and Austin Avenue.



East and west sides of South State Street from West North Avenue to the south
corporate limits.



South side of East Third Street from Olive Street to North Stanford Road.
(Ord. 73-179, 8-6-1973)



East and west sides of Olive Street from East Third Street to U.S. Route 50.
(Ord. 73-179, 8-6-1973; amd. Ord. 98-1463, 11-16-1998)



East and west sides of North Seminary Street from West North Avenue to West
Eighth Street.



East and west sides of South Main Street from Flora Avenue to Fairview Avenue.



North and south sides of Fairview Avenue from South Main Street to South
Locust Street. (Ord. 73-179, 8-6-1973)



North Avenue (FA 26, SBI 25, marked Route U.S. 45) within the city limits of
Flora. Parking, where permitted, shall be parallel to the curbs.



Mill Street extending both northerly and southerly from North Avenue for a
distance of one hundred fifty feet (150'). (Ord. 75-234, 1-20-1975)



South side of Flora Avenue between South Locust Street and Orchard Avenue.
(Ord. 75-245, 5-17-1975)



On both sides of Vincennes Avenue from Mill Street to Emory Avenue. (Ord.
78-379, 2-6-1978)



Any vehicle in violation of the preceding paragraph shall have attached
thereto by any officer detecting such violation a notice of violation. If the
owner or operator of such vehicle shall pay to the city clerk the sum of one
dollar ($1.00) within twenty four (24) hours of the violation, such payment
shall be full satisfaction for said violation. If such payment is not made
within twenty four (24) hours of the violation, then the sum of five dollars
($5.00) shall be the penalty for such violation if paid before action is
filed for penalties hereinafter provided. Failure to make such payment as
provided in this section shall make the owner or operator subject to the
penalties set forth in the following paragraph.



Any person who shall fail to make payment as provided in the preceding
paragraph, and any person who aids, abets or assists therein, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 78-379, 2-6-1978)



On both sides of Vincennes Avenue from Emory Street to College Street. (Ord.
78-412, 1978)



No vehicle shall be parked on the north side and south side of West
Washington Street, between South Main Street and the right of way of the
Prairie Trunck Railroad Company. (Ord. 80-475, 2-4-1980)



No vehicle shall be parked on the south side of East Drive between Martin
Street and Stanford Road. (Ord. 80-495, 7-7-1980)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of East Washington Street between
Locust Street and Mill Street.



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Mill Street between Washington
Street and Flora Avenue. (Ord. 81-531, 5-4-1981)



No vehicle shall be parked on the north side of East Second Street between
Sycamore Street and Olive Street. (Ord. 81-552, 9-8-1981)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Locust Street between Washington
Street and Lincoln Avenue. (Ord. 81-554, 9-8-1981)



No vehicle shall be parked on the north side of Lincoln Street between Locust
Street and Mill Street.



No vehicle shall be parked on the south side of Lincoln Street from Mill
Street to a point two hundred eighty five feet (285') west of the corner of
Mill Street and Lincoln Street between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.



No vehicle shall be parked on the south side of Lincoln Street from Locust
Street to a point one hundred fifty feet (150') east of the corner of Locust
Street and Lincoln Street. (Ord. 82-571, 2-15-1982)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Mill Street between Flora Avenue
and Fair Avenue. (Ord. 83-595, 3-7-1983)



No vehicle shall be parked upon East Third Street from the point marking the
intersection of East Third Street and North Mill Street and a point one
hundred fifty five feet (155') west thereof. (Ord. 83-608, 6-13-1983)



No vehicle shall be parked on the south side of the 300 block of Flora Avenue
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M.



No vehicle shall be parked on the south side of the 300 block of Lincoln
Avenue between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00)
P.M.



No vehicle shall be parked on the east side of the 600 block of South Mill
Street between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. (Ord. 83-623, 9-19-1983)



Main Street and North Avenue as follows:



1. No vehicle shall park upon the north side of East North Avenue from the
northeast corner of the intersection of East North Avenue and North Main
Street and extending one hundred four and five-tenths feet (104.5') to the
east thereof.



2. No vehicle shall park upon the south side of East North Avenue from the
southeast corner of the intersection of East North Avenue and South Main
Street and extending forty four feet (44') to the east thereof.



3. No vehicle shall park upon the west side of South Main Street from the
southwest corner of the intersection of West North Avenue and South Main
Street and extending forty three feet (43') to the south thereof.



4. No vehicle shall park upon the south side of West North Avenue from the
southwest corner of the intersection of West North Avenue and South Main
Street and extending one hundred four and five-tenths feet (104.5') to the
west thereof.



5. No vehicle shall park upon the north side of West North Avenue from the
northwest corner of the intersection of West North Avenue and North Main
Street and extending fifty one and twenty five-hundredths feet (51.25') to
the west thereof.



6. No vehicle shall park upon the west side of North Main Street from the
northwest corner of the intersection of West North Avenue and North Main
Street and extending one hundred twenty five and five-tenths feet (125.5') to
the north thereof.



Any vehicle in violation of subsections (B)1 through (B)6 of this section
shall have attached thereto by any officer detecting such violation a notice
of violation. The owner or operator of such vehicle shall pay to the city
clerk the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) as the penalty for such violation, if
said ten dollars ($10.00) is paid before action is filed for penalties as
hereinafter provided. Failure to make such payment as provided in this
section shall make the owner or operator subject to the penalties set forth
in the following paragraphs:



Any person who shall fail to make payment as provided in the preceding
paragraph and any person who aids, abets or assists therein shall be guilty
of a petty offense.



Any owner or operator of a vehicle who has received two (2) notices of
violation of subsections (B)1 through (B)6 of this section upon receiving his
third notice of violation of subsections (B)1 through (B)6 of this section
shall be guilty of a petty offense. (Ord. 84-641, 2-6-1984)



No vehicle shall be parked upon either side of South Stanford Road from
Vincennes Avenue to the Chessie Railroad track. (Ord. 85-699, 4-1-1985)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Greenlaw Avenue from West North
Avenue to the end of said street. (Ord. 85-748, 9-16-1985)



Either side of West Third Street from North Main Street to North Elm Street.
(Ord. 87-871, 10-5-1987)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Commercial Drive, except for
commercial deliveries. (Ord. 98-1417, 3-16-1998)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of North Main Street from the now
existing north side of Second Street for a distance of fifty feet (50').
(Ord. 99-1482, 2-15-1999)



No vehicles shall be parked upon the west side of North State Street from the
intersection of Twelfth and State Street to the intersection of State Street
and U.S. Route 50/45. (Ord. 99-1515, 7-19-1999)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Industrial Drive. (Ord. 99-1519,
7-29-1999)



Both sides of West Fourth Street from Worthy to Granger Boulevard.



Both sides of Greenlaw Avenue from West North Avenue to West Fourth Street.
(Ord. 00-1572, 2-21-2000)



The north side of East Third Street from the intersection with North Mill
Street to the intersection of North Olive Street. (Ord. 01-1673, 7-16-2001)



The north side of the 400 block of Flora Avenue in the city of Flora,
Illinois. (Ord. 02-1750, 10-7-2002)



The north side of the 100 block of East 5th Street between North Main Street
and Locust Street. (Ord. 03-1780, 4-21-2003)



On U.S. 50/45 within the corporate limits of the city of Flora, Illinois and
on Worthey Street within five hundred feet (500') of the intersection of
Worthey Street and U.S. 45/50. Any person who violates this no parking zone
is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 05-1965, 11-21-2005)



No vehicle shall be parked on the south side of 12th Street between North
State Street and Olive Street in the city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 07-2068,
6-4-2007)



No vehicles shall be parked upon the following streets: Field Avenue and
Martin Street. However, parking is allowed for residents, owners of real
estate, tenants of real estate or guests of the residents living on the real
estate adjacent to the streets and immediately in front of or adjacent to the
real estate upon which said residence is located. (Ord. 11-2423, 6-6-2011)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Emory Street and a portion of
Cherry Street from the intersection with Vincennes Avenue to the intersection
with Fair Avenue.  (Ord. 15-2706, 8-3-2015)



No vehicle shall be parked on the east side and west side of Thomas Street
from the intersection of West 4th Street to the intersection of West 3rd
Street.  (Ord. 15-2733, 12-7-2015)



No vehicle shall be parked on either side of Kinnaman Drive.  (Ord. 17-2801,
2-6-2017)



On both sides of South Main Street from its intersection with South Avenue to
its intersection with Fairview Avenue.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



On both sides of Field Avenue.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



On both sides of Lincoln Street from its intersection with Austin Avenue to
Emory Street.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



On both sides of Industrial Drive.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



On both sides of Commercial Drive.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



On both sides of North State Road from its intersection with West North
Avenue to its intersection with Main Street.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



On both sides of Emory Street from its intersection with Vincennes Avenue to
its intersection with Field Avenue.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



Hermitage Pike to its intersection with North Olive Street.  (Ord. 17-2947,
9-18-2017)



There shall be no parking on both sides of North Locust Street within fifty
feet (50') of its intersection with East 3rd Street which shall be designated
by a yellow curb.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



There shall be no parking on both sides of East 3rd Street within fifty feet
(50') of its intersection with North Locust Street which shall be designated
by a yellow curb.  (Ord. 17-2947, 9-18-2017)



(C)   No person shall park any motor truck of more than three-quarter
(3/4) ton capacity on North Avenue between Elm Street and Locust Street or
upon the municipal parking lots of the city at any time. A "motor truck" is
any motor vehicle licensed as a truck by the state where it is registered.
(Ord. 70-96, 9-21-1970)



(D)   (Rep. by Ord. 12-2518, 9-17-2012)



(E)   There shall be no truck or semitrailer parking on McCawley Avenue
from the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
(Ord. 98-1439, 7-6-1998)



(F)   No vehicle shall be parked on the north side of East Drive between
Austin Avenue and a point nine hundred feet (900') east of Austin Avenue
being the eastern boundary line of block G of M.T. Snyder's addition to the
city of Flora, Illinois. (Ord. 00-1590, 4-17-2000)



(G)   No vehicle shall be parked on the north or south side of the 100
block of East Lincoln in the city of Flora, Illinois, except for vehicles
owned by residents who live along the north or south side of the 100 block of
East Lincoln Street in the city of Flora, Illinois, or individuals who may be
visiting said residents. (Ord. 01-1684, 9-17-2001)



(H)   Any vehicle parked in a “no parking zone” or “restricted
parking zone” may be towed and removed from said zone by the authorization
of the city police department at the vehicle owner’s expense. (Ord.
11-2423, 6-6-2011)



9-3-5: TIME LIMIT PARKING:



(A)   Two Hour Parking: No person shall park any vehicle on either side of
Flora Avenue for more than two (2) successive hours at any one time between
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day
except Sundays and legal holidays.



(B)   Fifteen Minute Parking Zone: No person shall park any vehicle for a
period of time exceeding fifteen (15) minutes at any one time between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day
except Sundays and legal holidays in those spaces marked for diagonal
parking, except those two (2) reserved for the police vehicles of the city,
which are located adjacent to the entrance to the police department of the
city on the north side of the city hall building, providing for diagonal
parking, beginning at a point perpendicular to the northwest corner of the
city hall building and extending to approximately one hundred feet (100')
east of this point along the south side of East Second Street.



The commissioner of streets and public improvements shall erect signs to
inform the public of the parking permitted in such areas. (Ord. 66-26,
12-27-1966)



9-3-6: HANDICAPPED PARKING ZONES:



(A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
bearing registration plates or decals issued to handicapped persons as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-159.1, pursuant to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-616 or 5/11-1301.2 or to a disabled veteran pursuant to
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-609 as evidence that the vehicles operated
by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran in any parking space
including any private or public off street parking facility specifically
reserved by the posting of an official sign as designated in the state
"Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" established in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-301 for motor vehicles bearing such registration
plates. (Ord. 85-725, 7-1-1985)



(B)   Parking spaces reserved for use by handicapped individuals are
established and described as follows:



Beginning at a point on the east side of North Main Street 53.58 feet south
of the point of the intersection of the tangents formed by a curve on the
face of the curb on the east side of North Main Street and the south side of
Second Street, being the point of beginning, thence in a southerly direction
along the east side of North Main Street 24 feet to a point, thence in a
westerly direction perpendicular to the east side of North Main Street 8 feet
to a point, thence north parallel to the east side of North Main Street 24
feet to a point, thence in an easterly direction 8 feet to the point of
beginning. (Ord. 87-869, 9-21-1987; amd. Ord. 09-2264, 7-6-2009)



A certain parking space located on East North Avenue in front of a currently
known business as China Buffet, being described as the East 40 feet of Lot 12
of Block 16 of the Original Town (now City) of Flora, with said parking at
said location to be limited to fifteen (15) minutes.



(Ord. 87-869, 9-21-1987; amd. Ord. 96-1324, 11-4-1996; amd. Ord. 09-2264,
7-6-2009)



A certain parking space located on North Main Street adjacent to the business
currently named U.S. Bank Building, being the first parking space on said
street. The U.S. Bank Building is located on Lot Seven (7) of Block Sixteen
(16) in the Original Town (now City) of Flora, Clay County, Illinois.



(Ord. 91-1075, 5-6-1991; amd. Ord. 09-2264, 7-6-2009)



A certain existing parking space identified as the first parking space on Elm
Street North of West North Avenue and on the East side of Elm Street in the
City of Flora, Illinois adjacent to Lot Twelve (12) of Block Fifteen (15) of
the original Town, (now City) of Flora, Illinois with said parking at said
location to be limited to fifteen (15) minutes. (Ord. 96-1324, 11-4-1996;
amd. Ord. 09-2264, 7-6-2009)



A certain parking space located in the parking lot west of the City Hall
Building being a parking space on the east side of said parking lot and the
most southerly parking space available for parking.  (Ord. 99-1531,
9-7-1999; amd. Ord. 09-2264, 7-6-2009)



A certain parking space being the most easterly parking space on the north
side of West North Avenue and immediately in front of 100 West North Avenue,
Flora, Illinois the same is hereby designated as a handicap parking space. 
(Ord. 08-2170, 8-4-2008; amd. Ord. 09-2264, 7-6-2009)



(C)   The commissioner of streets and public improvements is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to place such signs to mark the
handicapped parking zone as described in subsection (B) of this section as
will conform to the requirements of the state "Manual Of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices For Streets And Highways".



(D)   The commissioner of streets and public improvements is further
authorized, empowered and directed to provide to such businesses upon request
in writing, such signs which conform to the state "Manual Of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices For Streets And Highways" necessary for the establishment of
handicapped parking stalls or spaces upon private parking areas owned by said
business. Said commissioner of streets and public improvements shall collect
from said requesting business the cost to the city for the purchase of the
signs. Upon erection of the proper signs by the business upon its parking
lot, the police department of the city is authorized to enforce the
handicapped parking restrictions as authorized by 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1301.3.



(E)   The police department of the city is hereby authorized to remove to
the nearest garage or place of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or
space reserved for use by the handicapped which does not display handicapped
registration plates or any special decal or device as required under 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.3.



(F)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) in addition to the costs or charges
connected with the removal or storage of any motor vehicle from said
handicapped parking stall or space. (Ord. 85-725, 7-1-1985)



9-3-7: CITY HALL PARKING:



(A)   Parking in the parking areas located immediately adjacent to and
east of city hall along the west side of North Locust Street and parking in
the parking areas located immediately adjacent to and south of the city hall
along the north side of East 2nd Street shall be restricted to parking for
employees of the city of Flora, Illinois, during the hours of seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) A.M. through four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M., Monday through
Friday, excluding holidays as recognized by the city.



(B)   Parking in the parking lot immediately west of city hall shall be
restricted to parking for conducting business either in the city hall
building or at the Flora public library during regular business hours as
established by city hall and the Flora public library. (Ord. 03-1826,
12-15-2003)



CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER HUMAN POWERED VEHICLES



9-4-1: APPLICATION OF RULES:



(A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this chapter.



(B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit the child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.



(C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles, skateboards and other
human powered vehicles shall apply whenever the vehicles are operated upon
any highway, upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
skateboards or other human powered vehicles, on public sidewalks, alleys, or
motor vehicle parking areas open to the public and subject to any other
exceptions stated herein. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-2: APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES:



Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of
a vehicle 18 by this title except as to special regulations in this chapter,
and except as to those provisions of this title which by their nature can
have no application. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-3: RIGHT OF WAY:



Operators of bicycles shall yield the right of way to all law abiding
pedestrians and operators of motor vehicles when upon any street or roadway
unless the operator is riding in a lane designated and marked as a bicycle
lane, in which case motor vehicles shall yield to bicycles. (Ord. 88-941,
11-21-1988)



9-4-4: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:



Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction, except that persons
riding a bicycle on a one-way roadway or street may ride as near as possible
to either curb or edge of the roadway. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-5: RIDING ON BICYCLES:



(A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.



(B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a backpack, sling, or safety
seat in a way as not to interfere with the safe operation of the vehicle.
(Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-6: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:



(A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall comply with official traffic
control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to motor vehicles
and pedestrians, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.



(B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left turn or a turn in the opposite direction is permitted, no person
operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of the sign, except where
that person dismounts to make the turn, in which event the person shall then
obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-7: REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING BICYCLES:



(A)   Right Turns: A right turn shall be made from as near as practicable
to the right curb or the roadway edge and completed as near as practicable to
the right curb or roadway edge on the intersecting street, after the operator
of the bicycle has yielded to all vehicles on the intersecting street not
required to stop.



(B)   Left Turn From One-Way Street Into A One-Way Street: A left turn
from a one-way street into a one-way street shall be made from as near as
practicable to the left hand curb or roadway edge and completed, without
crossing traffic lanes, as near as practicable to the left hand curb or
roadway edge on the intersecting street, after the bicycle operator has
yielded to all vehicles, on the intersecting street, not required to stop.



(C)   Left Turn From A Two-Way Street: A left hand turn from a two-way
street where it is necessary to cross lanes for oncoming traffic shall follow
a course described in subsection (C)1 or (C)2 of this section:



1. A person riding a bicycle intending to turn left shall approach the
intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle, and, after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection in
a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in that direction upon the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection. In any case, the turning bicycle shall yield to oncoming
traffic and shall not begin a left turn until a safe interval occurs.



2. A person riding a bicycle intending to turn left shall approach the turn
as close as practicable to the right curb or edge of the roadway. After
proceeding across the intersecting roadway, the turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the curb or edge of the roadway on the far side of the
intersection. After turning, the bicyclist shall comply with any official
traffic control device or police officer regulating traffic on the highway
along which he intends to proceed. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-8: HAND SIGNALS:



Bicycle operators shall signify their intentions of turning by using the same
hand signals specified in this title for operators of motor vehicles. (Ord.
88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-9: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:



The operator of a bicycle emerging from any alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, stop and yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on
the sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall stop and
yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (Ord.
88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-10: ENDANGERING PERSONS OR PROPERTY; SPEED:



No bicycle, skateboard or other human powered vehicle shall be ridden at any
time, at any place, or in any manner so as to be dangerous or cause damage to
any person or property. No person shall operate a human powered vehicle at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing. Reckless operation of a human powered vehicle; including, but not
limited to, driving and swerving in and out of pedestrian or motor vehicle
traffic is prohibited. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-11: CONTROL OF HUMAN POWERED VEHICLE:



Persons riding unicycles, tricycles and bicycles without handlebars or
persons riding skateboards or other human powered vehicles without an
effective manual steering mechanism are prohibited from operating on any
public street, roadway, alley, sidewalk, public parking lot or public tennis
courts of the city, unless the individual or individuals are participating in
a sanctioned event authorized by the city council. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-12: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:



(A)   The superintendent of public services is authorized to erect signs
on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles, skateboards or
human powered vehicles thereon by any person and when the signs are in place,
no person shall disobey the signs.



(B)   Pedestrians shall have the right of way at all times over bicycles,
and a person riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk crossing shall
yield, turn off of the sidewalk when meeting or passing pedestrians or shall
dismount until the pedestrians have passed. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-13: REQUIRED SAFETY EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:



(A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
headlamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a minimum
of five hundred feet (500') from the front, and with a rear red reflector of
the type capable of reflecting the headlamp beams of an approaching motor
vehicle back to the operator of such vehicle at distances up to two hundred
feet (200'), or a rear lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of
at least two hundred feet (200') from the rear.



(B)   No person shall operate a bicycle equipped with a siren.



(C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of, stop and hold the bicycle. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-14: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:



It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
skateboard or any human powered vehicle to cling or to attach himself or his
vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon. (Ord. 88-941, 11-21-1988)



9-4-15: PENALTY:



Any person found guilty of violating any section of this chapter shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for any single offense, exclusive of court costs. (Ord. 97-1351,
4-7-1997)



 


Notes

18 
See chapter 1 of this title.



CHAPTER 5
RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES/
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE



9-5-1:  DEFINITIONS:



As used in this chapter, the following words, terms and titles shall have the
following meanings:



 

RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE/ UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV):
 
Any motorized off highway device designed to travel primarily off highway,
sixty-four inches (64") in width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of two
thousand pounds (2,000) or less, traveling on four (4) or more non-highway
tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a non-handle bar type steering
wheel for steering control except for equipment such as lawn mowers and more
fully defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-168.8 Recreational Off Highway Vehicle and 625
ILCS 5/11-1426.1 Operation of Highway Vehicles on the Streets, Roads and
Highways as more fully set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code. All terrain
vehicles are not considered as UTV’s for purposes of this ordinance and are
not allowed within the City of Flora or on the streets of the City of Flora,
Illinois. (Ord. 17-2805, 3-6-2017)



 



9-5-2:  POLICY STATEMENT:



This chapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Recreational off
highway vehicles/UTV's are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
street and roads and the City of Flora, Illinois in no way advocates or
endorses their operations on the streets or roadways. The City of Flora,
Illinois by regulating such operation is merely addressing what it deems to
be safety issues with said vehicles. This ordinance is not to be relied upon
as a determination that operation on the streets of a recreational off
highway vehicle/UTV is safe or advisable even if done in accordance with this
ordinance. All persons operating such a vehicle must be observant of and
attentive to the safety of themselves and others including their passengers,
other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. All persons who operate such a
vehicle on the streets inside the City of Flora, Illinois do so at their own
risk and peril. The City of Flora has no liability under any theory or
liability policy for permitting recreational off highway vehicles/UTV's
operated on the streets or within the City of Flora Illinois.  (Ord.
17-2805, 3-6-2017)



9-5-3:     RULES AND REGULATIONS:



All persons wishing to operate a recreational off highway vehicle/UTV on City
streets must be in compliance with the follow rules:



(A)   REQUIRED EQUIPMENT: No recreational off highway vehicle/ utility
terrain vehicle shall be operated on a street or highway under the
jurisdiction of the City of Flora unless, an amendment to it has the
following safety equipment:



   1.   Brakes



   2.   Steering wheel - non-handle bar type steering wheel



   3.   Four (4) or more tires



   4.   Rear view mirror



   5.   A slow moving plaque as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-709 attached
to the rear of said vehicle



   6.   Headlights that emit white light visible from at least five
hundred (500) feet to the front and said lights must be on during use



   7.   Taillights that emit red light visible from at least one
hundred feet (100') to the rear



   8.   Brake lights on the rear



   9.   Turn signals on the front and rear of said vehicle



   10.   Seatbelts for driver and each passenger



   11.   Horn



   12.   Eye protection to be worn or a windshield installed



   13.   A roll bar or cage surrounding the occupants



(B)   Operational rules:



   1.   Any recreational off highway vehicle/UTV operated within the
City of Flora must acquire and display on the vehicle an inspection/permit
sticker issued by the City Clerk's office after said vehicle has passed an
inspection by the City of Flora Police Department. The annual cost of said
inspection/ permit sticker shall be One Hundred Dollars ($100.00). The permit
shall be good for one (1) year and the owner thereof shall annually reapply
for a new sticker along with an inspection by the City of Flora Police
Department.



   2.   Any individual who operates a recreational off highway
vehicle/UTV within the City of Flora, Illinois must possess a valid Class D
Illinois (or equivalent of any other state) driver's license and furthermore
must be at least eighteen (18) years of age or older.



   3.   No individual under the age of eight (8) years shall be allowed
to be a passenger in said vehicle and nor shall any child above the age of
eight (8) years will be a passenger as subject to the Child Passenger
Protection Act 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.



   4.   The vehicle shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted at
all times.



   5.   Said vehicle shall travel on the street in the same direction
as traffic.



   6.   No individual shall operate and no owner shall permit another
person to operate such a vehicle on the City of Flora streets unless the
vehicle is covered by liability insurance policies required by law and said
insurance is good at the time of the application for least a period of six
(6) months. Proof of such liability insurance shall be carried on said driver
or in the vehicle at the time of operation on the City of Flora streets.



   7.   Any individual operating such a recreational off highway
vehicle/UTV within the City Limits of the City of Flora, Illinois shall be
subject to all laws of the State of Illinois concerning the rules of the road
and hereto the same as set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code, Chapter 625
ILCS 5/1-100 et seq. Furthermore, said vehicle and the operation thereof
shall be subject to the ordinances of



   8.   All recreational off highway vehicles/UTV's may not be operated
on any sidewalk.



   9.   Any individual who operates a recreational off highway
vehicle/UTV within the City Limits of the City of Flora, Illinois shall
adhere to all applicable State laws of the City Ordinances concerning the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages and all illegal drugs as well as
all other laws applicable thereto.



   10.   Each driver and passenger of a off highway vehicle/ UTV shall
wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt. Children must be
secured in a child restraint system as required pursuant to the Child
Passenger Protection Act 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.



   11.   No recreational off highway vehicle/UTV shall park in any
handicap parking spaces unless the driver or a passenger has a valid handicap
parking sticker.



   12.   No off highway vehicle/UTV may attach any trailer, implement
or other devise to the rear of the vehicle or otherwise while being used
within the City of Flora, Illinois and said operator shall not use any pull
rope or chain or any other devise in any fashion to either tow or be towed
within the City of Flora, Illinois, nor shall said off highway vehicle/UTV be
used to push any implement or other vehicle, except for a snow plow or other
apparatus which conforms to said vehicle.



   13.   No recreational off highway vehicle/UTV shall be operated
within the Charley Brown Park area of the City of Flora.



   14.   All highway vehicles/UTVs shall comply with the City ordinance
in regards to speed on City streets as well as any and all other ordinances
regarding operation of any vehicle on the City streets.



(C)   Operational boundaries: The boundaries for use of a recreational off
highway vehicle/UTV hereby limited to the following areas:



   1.   North bound limits



      N. Stanford at Stacy Burk Drive



      N. Olive Street at Natchez Trace



      N. State at Mimmosa



      N. Worthey Street at "Wal-Mart entrance"



   2.   South bound limits



      Industrial Drive at Airport Road



      S. Stanford at Country View Drive



      S. State at E. Scudamore Street



   3.   East bound limits



      East North Avenue at McLean Implement



      Country View Drive at Industrial Drive



   4.   West bound limits



      W. 12th Street at N. Worthey Street



      W. 4th Street at Shahylee



      W. North Avenue at "West Y intersection"



   The limits are set forth as described hereinabove and shall be
presented to each permittee as a map of the areas and boundaries of operation
within the City of Flora, Illinois and the same is so limited.



(D)   Permit required: As set forth hereinabove, no person shall operate a
recreational off highway vehicle/UTV within the City of Flora, Illinois
without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk as provided herein.
Permits shall be granted for a period of one (1) year and renewed annually.
The cost of said permit is One Hundred Dollars ($100.00). The person
requesting a permit shall provide proof of liability insurance as required by
law and said insurance shall be good at the time of the application for a
period of time of at least six (6) months thereafter. Proof of such insurance
must be carried on the driver or in the off highway vehicle/UTV at the time
of operation within the City of Flora, Illinois.



   1.   Every application for a permit shall be made on the forms as
provided by the City and shall contain the following information:



      (a)   Name and address of applicant.



      (b)   Name of liability insurance carrier.



      (c)   Serial number, make, model and description of the
recreational off highway vehicle/UTV.



      (d)   Waiver of liability signed by applicant releasing the
City and agreeing to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all
future claims resulting from the operation of the vehicle on the City streets
as to injury or damage to property or person.



      (e)   Proof of insurance coverage specifically for the vehicle
to be operated pursuant to the permit.



      (f)   Photocopy of the applicant's current driver's license.



      (g)   Such other and further information as the City may
require.



   2.   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are
met:



      (a)   The vehicle shall be inspected by the City of Flora
Police Department to insure the vehicle is safe to operate on the streets of
the City of Flora and is in compliance with this ordinance.



      (b)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a
certificate signed by a physician certifying the applicant is able to safely
operate a recreational off highway vehicle/UTV.



      (c)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in
compliance with the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statues regarding
minimum liability for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of
the State of Illinois.



      (d)   The vehicle does comply with all other requirements of
the Illinois Vehicle Code or any other applicable State law.  (Ord. 17-2805,
3-6-2017)



9-5-4:     PENALTIES:



Any violation of this ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not less than
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars
($750.00). Any violation of this ordinance or the Statutes of the State of
Illinois may result in revocation of the permit issued or a fine or both. In
the event of a first offense, a fine and revocation or suspension of permit
may occur. In the event of a second offense within eighteen (18) months of a
prior offense, the same shall result in a fine and immediate revocation of
the permit issued. At any time under this ordinance, upon investigation and
by the recommendation of the City of Flora Police Department, the City of
Flora, by and through the City Clerk, may suspend or revoke a permit granted
hereunder upon a finding by the Police Department there is evidence that the
Permitee cannot safely or will not safely operate said vehicle nor is said
vehicle complying with this ordinance. Upon such revocation or suspension,
the City Clerk shall provide notice to the Permitee by regular mail or
personal delivery.  (Ord. 17-2805, 3-6-2017)



TITLE 10
ZONING



CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN



10-1-1: PLAN ADOPTED:



The official comprehensive plan and the official map are hereby adopted by
the city council. Copies of said official comprehensive plan and official map
will remain on file with the city clerk, and will be available at all times
during business hours for public inspection 19 . (Ord. 70-95, 8-24-1970)



 


Notes

19 
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq., 5/11-14-1 et seq., 5/11-15-1 et seq.



CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISIONS



10-2-1: SUBDIVISIONS:



No plat of any subdivision or addition to the city shall be accepted and
approved by the city council unless it conforms to the following requirements:



(A)   The plat shall be prepared and certified by a registered Illinois
land surveyor, holding a certificate of registration from the department of
registration and education of the state of Illinois, in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois land surveyor's act. The plat shall bear the
registration number of the registered land surveyor preparing it.



(B)   The plat shall be made by blueprint or black line print method. Two
(2) copies of each plat shall be filed with the city clerk, prior to the
approval.



(C)   The plat shall refer to some known and permanent monument and
particularly describe and set forth all the streets, alleys, common or public
grounds and all the in and out lots, or fractional lots, or blocks within,
adjoining or adjacent to the land so divided. The plat shall show the names,
width, course and extent of all streets and alleys, and number the lots and
blocks by progressive numbers, and show their precise length width. (1956
Code, Sec. 11.07)



(D)   All public streets shall be adequate for the purposes of usage of
the subdivision or resubdivision or addition to the subdivision and shall be
subject to approval pursuant to section 2-2-6 of this code. (Ord. 94-1202,
5-16-1994)



(E)   The outer limits of the subdivision or addition shall be designated
and marked by permanent markers set at the outer corners thereof, which
markers shall be of reinforced concrete not less than three feet (3') in
length and not less than four inches (4") at its smallest dimension. The
markers shall be planted so that the upper portion is as nearly flush with
the grade line as is practicable.



(F)   The plat shall recite on its face that it is prepared in accordance
with the terms and provisions of this section, and shall refer to this
section by number 20 . (1956 Code, Sec. 11.07)



10-2-2: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED:



The subdivision regulations for the city are hereby approved and adopted as
of April 17, 1995. Copies of the subdivision rules and regulations shall
remain on file with the city clerk at the City Hall Building, 122 North Main
Street, Flora, Illinois and shall be available for public inspection during
regular business hours. (Ord. 95-1241, 4-17-1995)



 


Notes

20 
65 ILCS 5/11-15-1 et seq., 5/11-15.1-1 et seq.; 765 ILCS et seq.; 30 ILCS
535/1 et seq.



CHAPTER 3
ZONING ORDINANCE



10-3-1: ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED:



The zoning ordinance of the city is hereby approved and adopted by the city
council. Copies of said zoning ordinance will remain on file with the city
clerk, and will be available at all times during business hours for public
inspection. (Ord. 90-1058, 10-23-1990)



CHAPTER 4
SIGN REGULATIONS



10-4-1:  SIGN REGULATION DISTRICT: 



This chapter, which regulates signs, shall apply within the sign regulation
district. The district shall extend to all real estate located within the
corporate city limits of the city of Flora, Illinois and within one and
one-half miles thereof as shown on the official zoning map of the city of
Flora, Illinois. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-2:  PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE: 



The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that persons and businesses desiring
to exercise their rights, under the first amendment of the United States
Constitution, by expressing commercial and noncommercial messages, shall be
treated uniformly while insuring that the public health, safety and welfare
are protected. This chapter has the following specific objectives:



(A)   To preserve, protect and promote the public safety on city streets
by limiting the unnecessary distraction of the motorist caused by signs;



(B)   To create a fair and balanced system of sign regulations recognizing
both the needs of the business community and the desires of the citizenry for
a reduction of sign confusion;



(C)   To preserve and protect the property values of the city's
residential neighborhoods by protecting the visual character of these areas
from the blighting effects of uncontrolled signs;



(D)   To ensure that signs are designed, constructed, installed and
maintained so that the public and traffic safety are not compromised;



(E)   To reflect and support the desired character and development
patterns of the various zoning districts;



(F)   To allow for adequate and effective signs in commercial and
industrial zones while preventing signs from dominating the appearance of the
area;



(G)   To ensure that the constitutionally guaranteed right of free speech
is protected. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-3:  COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS: 



Other than lawful nonconforming signs, no signs shall be permitted in any
zoning district except in accordance with provisions of this chapter and
shall require a signed permit in conformance with the provisions herein. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-4:  DEFINITIONS:



 


ARCHITECTURAL SIGNS:

 
An architectural sign shall include all signs which are attached to a
building and have no other supporting members other than those attached to
the building. An architectural sign is not a freestanding sign.


BUILDING FAÇADE:
 
The walls of a building or any other near vertical structural element below
the roof surface area(s).



 



 


BUILDING FRONTAGE:

 
The length in feet of the ground floor level of a building front and/or sides
abutting a public right of way which have a public customer entrance.


BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT:
 
Two (2) or more contiguous lots containing two (2) or more businesses with
unifying elements, such as shared parking or access, and a common commercial
zoning classification. The area of the development shall be a minimum of five
(5) acres. For the purpose of these sign regulations a business development
must include lots that do not have frontage on a state or federal highway and
the business development shall be limited to one (1) freestanding sign.


ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD:
 
A sign with a maximum area of fifty (50) square feet per side on which the
copy or display of information or objects changes electronically,
automatically or mechanically. The display on the sign shall be limited to
public service information or advertising for business(es) located on the
same property as the sign. The display of information shall be presented in a
readable fashion and shall not flash in a manner to attract attention. The
use of movements or change in lighting to depict animation, or a moving scene
shall be limited to such displays that take at least two (2) seconds to
complete. Individual movements or action within a display shall not occur
more rapidly than at a rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) times per second
(e.g., a ball bouncing, a wheel turning, a hand waving or an eye winking).
The use of flashing, blinking or pulsating lights to depict sudden or intense
actions such as explosions, moving borders or other like actions shall be
prohibited. The building official shall determine if the display complies
with the regulations.


 



 



 


FESTOON LIGHTS:

 
A group of two (2) or more light bulbs hung or strung overhead which are
exposed to persons on a public right of way and which are not shaded,
shielded, or hooded to prevent the direct rays of light from being visible
from the right of way.


FLASHING SIGNS:
 
A sign which in total or in part has illumination which changes or
intermittently flashes on and off, or gives the appearance of changing or
flashing more frequently than five (5) second intervals. Flashing signs do
not include time and temperature signs nor electronic message boards.


FLUSH WALL SIGN:
 
A sign mounted on, attached to, or painted on the exterior of a building
where the plane of the sign surface is parallel to and no more than one foot
(1') distance from the plane of the building to which it is attached. A flush
wall sign is an "architectural sign".


FREESTANDING SIGN:
 
A sign supported by one or more uprights, poles, or braces placed in or upon
the ground; or a sign supported by a structure independent of the building,
erected primarily for the display and support of the sign. A freestanding
sign is not an architectural sign.


ILLUMINATED SIGN:
 
A sign which has a light source as an integral part of the sign or which has
light directed on the sign from an external position.


LOT FRONTAGE:
 
Any portion, piece, division or parcel of land which abuts a public right of
way.


MAINTENANCE OF SIGN:
 
Any action, involving the painting or repair of a sign that alters less than
fifty percent (50%) of any sign surface area and does not otherwise alter the
wording, shape, area, material, height or any other element of a sign
existing prior to the painting and/or repair of the sign. All other actions
which result in change in the sign surface or elements shall be considered as
an erection of a new sign.



 



 




MOVING SIGN:

 
Any sign which revolves, moves, is animated or gives the visual impression of
revolving, moving or animation.


OFF PREMISES SIGN:
 
A sign not related in its subject matter to the premises on which it is
located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the
premises. However, for businesses which no longer exist, signs on the
premises which would otherwise conform to the provisions of this chapter
shall not be construed to be off premises signs. Off premises signs include
signs erected by the outdoor advertising industry, such as billboards.


PORTABLE SIGN:
 
Any sign which is not listed below shall be classified as a portable sign:


 

(A)   Any sign which is permanently mounted in the ground.



 

(B)   Any sign which is permanently attached to a building.



 

(C)   Any sign painted or magnetically affixed to a vehicle, if it
conforms to the shape of the vehicle and is not a changeable letter or
changeable copy sign.



 

(D)   Any sign otherwise affixed to a vehicle if less than five (5) sq.
ft. in surface area and not a changeable letter or changeable copy sign.



PROJECTING SIGNS:
 
A sign which is suspended from or supported solely by a building or a wall of
a building, and which projects from the plane of the building to which it is
attached.


SATELLITE BUSINESS:
 
A business which is part of a business development or shopping center but is
located in a building separate from the main building.




 



 




SHOPPING CENTER:

 
A grouping of two (2) or more business establishments which: a) share a
common on site parking lot, and b) occupy a single building or occupy
separate buildings which are physically attached.


SIGN:
 
An object, graphic display or device or part thereof situated outdoors or
directly visible from outdoors which is used to advertise, identify, direct,
or attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization,
business, product, service, event, or location by any means including words,
letters, figures, logos, trademarks, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors,
motion, illumination or projected images. The following shall not be
considered to be signs:


 

(A)   Flags of nations, an organization of nations, states, cities,
fraternal, religious, and civic organizations.



 

(B)   Merchandise, pictures, models or products, or services incorporated
in a window display.



 

(C)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post office box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or
other identification of premises not having commercial connotations.



 

(D)   Legal notices, informational, or directional signs erected or
required by governmental bodies.



 

(E)   National, state, religious, fraternal, professional, and civic
symbols or crests.



 

(F)   Decorations, clearly incidental and customarily and commonly
associated with any national, local or religious holiday displayed for a
period of not more than sixty (60) consecutive days nor more than sixty (60)
days in any one year.





 



 



 

(G)   Signs painted on or magnetically affixed to vehicles that do not
contain changeable letters of copy; and signs otherwise attached to vehicles
that do not exceed five (5) square feet in area and do not contain changeable
letters or changeable copy.



SIGNS, NUMBER OF:
 
An individual sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or
display device containing elements organized to form a unit. Where matter is
displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of elements, or
where there is reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements, each
element shall be considered to be a single sign.


SIGNS, SURFACE AREA OF:
 
The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area of
a regular geometric form or combination of regular geometric forms within
which the sign shape may be inscribed and comprising all the display area and
frame (or border) of the sign surface area and including all of the elements
of the matter displayed. Structural member not bearing advertising matter
shall not be included in the computation of the surface area.


STREET CURB LINE:
 
The street curb line shall be located at the furthest extent of the curb
structure from the centerline of the street for those streets with a curb
structure and the furthest extent of the street surface from the centerline
of the street for those streets with no curb structure.


TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN:
 
A sign whereon the date, time, and/or temperature is indicated by
intermittent lighting and is limited to the numerals indicating the date,
time and/or temperature.



 



 


WINDOW PROMOTIONAL SIGN:

 
A temporary sign, viewable from the exterior of a structure, which is
attached to a window for the specific purpose of attracting attention of a
passerby to a sale, or to promotional items. By temporary it is meant that a
window promotional sign is not intended for display for more than sixty (60)
days. An electrically operated window promotional sign shall be considered an
architectural sign and not a special sign.  (Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



 



10-4-5:  SIGN PERMITS:



(A)   Permit Required; Conditions: Before a sign is erected, altered, or
relocated, a permit shall be obtained:



1.   If it is a new sign.



2.   If an existing sign is being moved to a new location.



3.   If an existing sign is being enlarged in any manner.



4.   If an existing sign is being replaced with a similar sign of a new
material.



5.   If the sign is repainted or panel inserts replaced which constitute
fifty percent (50%) or more of the surface area of any side of an existing
sign.



6.   If there is any alteration of a sign that results from a change in
the business name, ownership, nature of business or product.



7.   If it is a temporary sign or banner as permitted by subsection
10-4-11(F) of this chapter.



(B)   Responsibility To Obtain Permit: It is the responsibility of the
owner of the sign to secure the appropriate permit.



(C)   Display of Permit: The permit shall be on display on the premises at
the time of erection and the following seven (7) days.



(D)   Exemptions: The following signs need not secure a permit, but these
signs must meet all requirements of section 10-4-11 of this chapter.



1.   The maintenance of existing sign areas as defined in section 10-4-4
of this chapter.



2.   Construction signs (erected after construction has commenced) and
temporary real estate signs.



3.   Window promotional signs, except electrically operated window
promotional signs.



4.   Yard sale signs.



5.   Signs permitted for single unit dwellings.



6.   Signs for historic places and buildings.



7.   Political signs. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-6:  APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION: 



The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the erection, alteration,
reconstruction, construction and maintenance of all on premises and off
premises signs and billboards within the city. To the extent that any other
provision of the city ordinances of the city of Flora shall be more
restrictive than the provision set forth in this chapter, the more
restrictive provision shall apply.



The sections, paragraphs, clauses and phrases of this chapter are severable,
and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this chapter
shall be declared unlawful by the valid judgment, decree or injunction order
of the court of competent jurisdiction, such ruling shall not affect any of
the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
chapter. In the event that, contrary to the policies, interests and values of
the city, a court of competent jurisdiction issues a judgment, decree or
injunction order that this chapter is unlawful because of any omission or
prohibition in this chapter, then all provisions of this chapter not
specifically declared to be unlawful shall remain in full force and effect.
In the event that a judgment, decree or injunction order declaring all or a
portion of this chapter to be unlawful is reversed or vacated by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the provisions contained in this chapter shall remain
in full force and effect.



Not withstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no sign shall be
subject to any limitation based on the content of message contained on such
sign. Any sign authorized in this chapter may contain noncommercial copy in
lieu of any other copy. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-7:  PROHIBITED SIGNS:



(A)   Off-premises signs, unless approved by the Zoning Board.



(B)   Pennants, propellers, paddle wheels, streamers, spinners, or other
attraction devices designed to be set in motion by the wind, except as
permitted in section 10-4-11 of this chapter, Special Signs.



(C)   Festoon lights.



(D)   Moving signs except as permitted by section 10-4-10 of this chapter,
Nonresidential Regulations.



(E)   Flashing signs.



(F)   Bare bulb illumination exceeding 25 watts per bulb.



(G)   Portable signs except as permitted in section 10-4-10 of this
chapter, Special Signs. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-8:  ILLUMINATION: 



All signs except those for one-, two-, three-, and four-unit dwellings and
for home occupations may be illuminated provided that it conforms to the
following restrictions:



(A)   The light source, including the interior of a building, shall be so
shaded, shielded, or directed so that the light intensity or brightness shall
not adversely affect surrounding or facing premises.



(B)   The light shall not adversely affect the safe vision of operators of
vehicles.



(C)   Light shall not shine on or into neighboring residential
structures. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-9:  RESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS: 



This section regulates all signs erected in all areas within the city zoned
R1, R2, R3, R4, MF-1, and MH.



(A)   Location of Signs: Signs may be erected at any location on private
property subject to the following restrictions:



1.   Signs erected on the property of unit dwellings and for home
occupations must be flush wall signs.



2.   All freestanding signs must either have twenty feet (20') of setback
from the street curb line (extended vertically), or have at least eight feet
(8') of clearance between the base of the sign and the ground.



3.   No part of any freestanding or building sign may be erected so as to
suspend over or otherwise encroach upon any public right of way.



4.   No sign may be erected on the roof of any structure, or be erected on
the building façade so that any portion of the sign exceeds the height of
the façade.



(B)   Height of Signs:



1.   Freestanding signs for other uses not listed above – signs may be
erected to the height of twelve feet (12') above the ground or the maximum
height of the building façade, whichever is less.



2.   Architectural signs may be erected to a maximum height of twelve feet
(12') from the ground or the maximum height of the building façade to which
they are attached, whichever is greater.



(C)   Sign Area:



1.   For one-, two-, three-, and four-unit dwellings – one square foot
per dwelling unit.



2.   For home occupations – two (2) square feet.



3.   For schools, government buildings, churches and public auditoriums
– fifty (50) square feet.



4.   For multi-unit dwelling developments and mobile home parks – one
square foot of sign area for each individual dwelling unit (such sign need
not be smaller than twelve (12) square feet and any one (1) sign shall not
exceed fifty (50) square feet).



5.   For bed and breakfast establishments and inns – twelve (12) square
feet.



6.   Other uses not listed above – one square foot of sign area for each
lineal foot of building frontage. (Such sign need not be smaller than twelve
(12) square feet.)



(D)   Illumination: Signs may be illuminated except signs for one-, two-,
three- and four-unit dwellings and for home occupations. The illumination may
not flash in any manner.



(E)   Movement: Signs in these zones may not move in any manner.



(F)   Number Of Signs:



1.   Freestanding signs when permitted – one per street frontage.



2.   Architectural signs – there is no limit on the number of
architectural signs within the provisions for sign area, see subsection (C)
of this section.



(G)   Business And Locations Not Permitted Freestanding Signs:



1.   Individual businesses within business development.



2.   Home occupations.



3.   One-, two-, three-, and four-unit dwellings. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-10:  NONRESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS: 



This section regulates all signs erected in all areas within the city zoned
A-1, A-2, C-1, C-2, I-1 and I-2.



(A)   Freestanding Signs: The following regulations apply to freestanding
signs only. Architectural signs are regulated by subsection (B) of this
section.



1.   Location of Signs: Freestanding signs may be erected at any location
on private property with the following restrictions.



(a)   All freestanding signs must either have twenty feet (20') of setback
from the street curb line (extended vertically), or have at least eight feet
(8') of clearance between the base of the sign and the ground.



(b)   No part of any freestanding signs may be erected on, or so as to
suspend over, or otherwise encroach upon, any public right of way.



2.   Height of Signs: Freestanding signs may be erected to a maximum
height of thirty-two feet (32') from the ground. For contract construction
services as a special use – freestanding signs may be erected to a height
of six feet (6') aboveground.



3.   Sign Area:



(a)   One- and Two-Sided Signs: A basic maximum of one hundred fifty (150)
square feet per side which may be increased to final maximum of four hundred
(400) square feet per side according to the following rate: six (6) square
feet per side for each ten feet (10') the sign is set back from the
centerline of the nearest street surface.



(b)   Signs With More Than Two Sides: The maximum surface area shall be
determined by subsection (A)3.(a) of this section. The total allowed for a
two (2) sided sign shall be divided equally on the number of sides desired.



(c)   When two (2) signs are permitted on a street frontage pursuant to
subsection (A)6.(b) of this section, neither sign may exceed the areas
permitted in subsection (A)3.(a) of this section and the cumulative area for
both signs shall not exceed one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the area
permitted in subsection (A)3.(a) of this section.



(d)   Contract Construction Services: For contract construction services
as a special use – fifty (50) square feet.



4.   Illumination: Signs may be illuminated. The total illumination of the
sign shall not change in intervals shorter than five (5) seconds. More rapid
change in illumination constitutes a flashing sign which is prohibited by
this chapter. Time and temperature signs and electronic message boards are
permitted.



5.   Movement: Signs may have no more than one (1) unit which rotates in
an uninterrupted manner not to exceed six (6) revolutions per minute. No
other movement or appearance of movement is permitted, except for time and
temperature signs and electronic message boards which are permitted to have
information or objects move across their display area in a readable manner.
The use of movement or change in lighting to depict animation or a moving
scene shall be limited to such displays that take at least two (2) seconds to
complete. Individual movements or action within a display shall not occur
more rapidly than at a rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) times per second
(e.g., a ball bouncing, a wheel turning, a hand waving or an eye winking).
The use of flashing, blinking or pulsating lights to depict sudden or intense
actions such as explosions, moving borders or other like actions shall be
prohibited. The administrative officials shall determine if the display
complies with the regulations.



6.   Number of Signs:



(a)   One freestanding sign per frontage located only on that street
frontage except as provided in subsection (A)6.(b) of this section.



(b)   In the circumstance where the street frontage for a business on a
street exceeds three hundred (300) linear feet, a second freestanding sign
may be erected on that street frontage provided that the surface area for the
signs complies with the requirements of subsection (A)3. of this section and
provided further that type two (2) signs are placed at least fifty feet (50')
apart. If the business has street frontage exceeding three hundred (300)
linear feet on more than one street frontage, a second freestanding sign may
only be erected on one frontage pursuant to this provision.



7.   Businesses Permitted Freestanding Signs:



(a)   Individual businesses in individual buildings.



(b)   Business developments and shopping centers.



(c)   Satellite businesses within a shopping center area.



(d)   Movie theaters and auditoriums in shopping centers and business
developments.



(B)   Architectural Signs: The following regulations apply to
architectural signs only. Freestanding signs are regulated by subsection (A)
of this section.



1.   Location of Signs: Architectural signs may be erected any place on
private property within the following restrictions:



(a)   No sign may be erected closer than three feet (3') to any street or
alley curb line (projected vertically).



(b)   No sign may project more than six feet (6') from any building
façade except as provided below:



(1)   Signs painted or mounted flush on a canopy or awning which is
located entirely on private property shall not be subject to the six foot
(6') maximum projection restriction.



(2)   Signs on a canopy or awning which is located entirely on private
property, other than painted or flushly mounted signs, shall be mounted
parallel to the building façade and shall not project more than six feet
(6') from the building façade or one foot (1') from the outer edge of the
awning or canopy on which it is mounted, whichever is greater.



(c)   Any sign which projects or suspends over any sidewalk, public or
private, must have eight feet (8') of clearance between the base of the sign
and the sidewalk surface.



(d)   All signs which suspend over a public right of way must have at
least eight feet (8') of clearance between the base of the sign and the
ground.



(e)   The owner of any sign suspended over a public right of way agrees to
indemnify and hold the city harmless from any liability which may arise by
reason of the sign being projected or suspended over the public right of way.



2.   Height Of Signs: Architectural signs may be erected to a maximum
height of thirty-two feet (32') from the ground or the maximum height of the
building façade to which they are attached, whichever is greater.



3.   Sign Area: Signs may be erected on the building within the following
area restrictions:



(a)   The business may erect architectural signs with a total sign area
not to exceed the higher area as determined below:



(1)   One square foot of sign area for each linear foot of lot or building
frontage, or



(2)   As determined by the floor area of the business through the
architectural sign schedule, subsection (B)8. of this section. This total
sign area may be increased according to the following rate: two percent (2%)
for each ten feet (10') of distance between the centerline of the nearest
street surface to nearest point of the building to which the sign will be
attached.



(b)   For contract construction services as a special use – fifty (50)
square feet.



4.   Illumination: Signs may be illuminated. The total illumination of the
sign shall not change in intervals shorter than five (5) seconds. More rapid
change in illumination constitutes a flashing sign which is prohibited by
this chapter. Time and temperature signs and electronic message boards are
permitted.



5.   Movement: Signs may have no more than one unit which rotates in an
uninterrupted manner not to exceed six (6) revolutions per minute. No other
movement or appearance of movement is permitted, except for time and
temperature signs and electronic message boards which are permitted to have
information or objects move across their display area in a readable manner.
The use of movement or change in lighting to depict animation or a moving
scene shall be limited to such displays that take at least two (2) seconds to
complete. Individual movements or action within a display shall not occur
more rapidly than at a rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) times per second
(e.g., a ball bouncing, a wheel turning, a hand waving or an eye winking).
The use of flashing, blinking or pulsating lights to depict sudden or intense
actions such as explosions, moving borders or other like actions shall be
prohibited. The administrative official shall determine if the display
complies with the regulations.



6.   Number of Signs: There is no limit on the number of architectural
signs per establishment except as restricted by the sign area provisions,
subsection (B)3. of this section.



7.   Business Permitted Architectural Signs: All businesses are permitted
architectural signs on the premises of the business.



8.   Architectural Sign Schedule:



 




Gross Floor Area

 
Rate of Additional Sign Area Per 100 ft. Additional Floor Area


Of Individual Store (sq. ft.)
 
Base Floor Area
 
Base Sign Area


0 – 1,000
 
0
 
Need not be less than 50 sq. ft. of sign area for businesses less than 1,000
sq. ft.
 


1,001 – 2,500
 
1,000
 
50
 
1.66


2,501 – 5,000
 
2,500
 
75
 
2.0


5,001 – 15,000
 
5,000
 
125
 
1.0


15,001 – 30,000
 
15,000
 
225
 
0.5


30,001 & larger
 
30,000
 
300
 
0.25




 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-11:   SPECIAL SIGNS PERMITTED: 



In addition to the signs permitted in each district as established in this
chapter, the following signs are also permitted subject to the conditions
established in this section. Heights of signs permitted in this section shall
not exceed the permitted sign height for the district where the sign is to be
erected unless otherwise specified by this section.



(A)   Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs advertising property of
buildings for sale, rent, or lease are permitted for the period of time while
the property is available for sale, rent or lease and for no more than
fourteen (14) days after the sale, rental, or leasing of said property or
building. No sign may be erected on, suspended over, or encroach upon the
public right of way. No real estate sign shall be erected so as to obstruct
the visual clearance needed for safe vehicular and pedestrian traffic.



1.   In A-1, A-2, I-1, I-2 Districts:



(a)   One sign per each eight hundred feet (800') of frontage.



(b)   A maximum of one hundred (100) sq. ft. of sign surface area per
side, two (2) sides permitted.



(c)   The sign, if freestanding, must have eight feet (8') of ground
clearance or maintain a twenty foot (20') setback from any street pavement.



2.   In C-1, C-2 Districts:



(a)   One sign per lot frontage,



(b)   A maximum of thirty-two (32) sq. ft. of sign surface area per side,
two (2) sides permitted.



(c)   The sign, if freestanding, must have eight feet (8') of ground
clearance or maintain a twenty foot (20') setback from any street pavement.



3.   In R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-1 and MH Districts:



(a)   One sign per lot frontage.



(b)   Maximum of six (6) sq. ft. of sign surface area per side, two (2)
sides permitted.



(B)   Temporary Construction Signs For Buildings Or Projects: Signs
stating the nature and name of the building or project, the names of
contractors, architects, engineers, or officials, financial information, or
any information required by law, are permitted in various districts subject
to the following provisions:



1.   Any such temporary signs required by a government for a project shall
be permitted.



2.   A-1, A-2, C- 1, C-2, I-1, I-2 Districts:



(a)   One sign per frontage except to projects encompassing more than one
block for which the maximum number shall be determined by the administrative
official.



(b)   A maximum of thirty-two (32) square feet per side, two (2) sides
permitted (except where governmental standards require a larger sign in which
case such sign shall be permitted).



3.   In R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-1 and MH Districts:



(a)   One sign per street frontage.



(b)   A maximum of six (6) square feet per side, two (2) sides permitted.



4.   Signs may not be erected more than sixty (60) days prior to the
beginning of actual construction of the building or project and shall be
removed when construction is substantially completed. If the sign is erected
and if construction is not initiated within sixty (60) days after the sign is
erected, or if such construction is not continuously and actively prosecuted
to completion, said sign shall be removed and shall not thereafter be erected
again until actual construction has begun.



(C)   Signs Designating Historic Areas Or Buildings: Signs denoting
historic buildings or areas may be erected subject to the following
provisions:



1.   Signs designating historic sites, areas, or districts shall be no
larger than:



(a)   Twelve (12) square feet in R-1, R-2, C-1, C-2 zoning districts.



2.   Signs designating historic buildings shall be flush wall signs on the
building so designated and shall be no larger than two (2) square feet in
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-1 and MH zoning districts.



(D)   Minor Directional Signs: Signs for and within shopping centers,
business developments, or individual business establishments and their
parking areas which guide automobile and pedestrian traffic. Such signs shall:



1.   Have maximum height of fifteen feet (15').



2.   Have a maximum surface area of ten (10) square feet per side, two (2)
sides permitted.



3.   Be located so as not to obstruct the vision of pedestrians or
motorists.



4.   Bear no advertising matter, except for the name of the establishment.



5.   Be permanently affixed to the ground or any permanent building or
structure.



6.   Be located on the premises of the establishment, shopping center or
business development.



(E)   Political Signs: Political signs are permitted in all areas of the
city subject to the following provisions:



1.   Signs may be erected forty-five (45) days prior to an election and
must be removed within five (5) days after the election except this section
shall not apply to residential real property.



2.   No sign shall be larger than thirty-two (32) square feet per side,
two (2) sides permitted.



3.   Signs shall not be located on any public right-of-way maintained by
the city, nor shall any sign be located on any property owned by the city, or
located as to obstruct the visual clearance needed for safe vehicle and
pedestrian traffic.



4.   Signs shall not be illuminated.



5.   Signs shall either be flush wall or freestanding.



6.   No political sign may be attached to utility poles, trees on public
right of way, street light poles, street or traffic sign nor fire hydrants.



(F)   Temporary Signs And Banners In General: Temporary signs, pennants,
and banners including portable signs are permitted for promoting special
community activities, special events, charity drives, activities of nonprofit
organizations, or special events for individual business establishments,
subject to the following provisions:



1.   Maximum Surface Area: One hundred (100) square feet per side, two (2)
sides permitted.



2.   Maximum Height: Six feet (6'), if freestanding.



3.   Maximum Exposure Time:



(a)   Fourteen (14) days per event for event sponsored by not-for-profit
organizations where the sign, banner, etc., is stretched between two (2)
light posts, a building and a post or a similar situation where there is
created an overhead banner supported from two (2) ends.



(b)   Sixty (60) days per event for events sponsored by not-for-profit
organizations where the sign, banner, etc., is not erected in the manner
described in subsection (F)3.(a) above.



(c)   Thirty (30) total days per calendar year for each individual
business.



(d)   Banners suspended from a building or existing freestanding sign,
with a total area not to exceed one hundred (100) square feet, are permitted
for periods up to thirty (30) consecutive days per event with no limit on the
number of events.



(e)   Pennants may be displayed for a maximum of ninety (90) days per
calendar year with a limit of thirty (30) consecutive days per event.



4.   No temporary sign shall be erected upon or suspended over public
right-of-way unless approved by the city building official.



5.   No temporary sign shall be erected within twenty feet (20') of the
curb line of any adjoining street surface except for buildings with less than
twenty feet (20') of setback from the curb. Such buildings may have erected
upon them temporary signs flush wall to the building.



(G)   Temporary Yard Sale Signs: Temporary yard sale signs may be erected
subject to the following provisions:



1.   Maximum Exposure Time: All such signs shall be erected no more than
twenty-four (24) hours prior to or remain in place no more than twelve (12)
hours after the yard or garage sale takes place.



2.   No yard sale sign may be erected on or attached to utility poles,
trees, on public right-of-way, street light poles, street or traffic signs,
or fire hydrants nor be located on the public right-of-way, or any city owned
real estate.



(H)   Subdivision Entrance Or Identification Signs: Each individual
subdivision may have entrance or identification signs subject to the
following provisions:



1.   Entrance or identification signs shall only identify the name of the
subdivision.



2.   One pair may be erected per entrance, into the subdivisions, but in
no case shall two (2) such pairs for the same subdivision be located closer
than one hundred feet (100') apart.



3.   No single sign shall be larger than twenty-four (24) square feet per
side and shall be limited to a maximum height of six feet (6').



4.   Location of all entrance or identification signs shall be subject to
the approval of the administrative official.



(I)   Industrial Park Identification Signs: Each industrial park may have
identification signs subject to the following:



1.   One such sign shall be allowed for each industrial park entrance and
shall be used only to identify the name and location of the industrial park.



2.   No single identification sign shall be larger than one hundred
twenty-five (125) square feet per side nor shall exceed a height of
twenty-five feet (25'). All such signs shall be located in a manner that does
not impede the vision of drivers to other vehicle and pedestrian traffic. The
location of such signs shall be subject to the approval of the administrative
official.



(J)   Directory Signs: Directory signs are permitted for multi-unit
dwelling developments and mobile home parks containing more than five (5)
structures or five (5) mobile homes in all districts subject to the following
provisions:



1.   Only one sign is permitted with a maximum of sixteen (16) square feet.



2.   The sign may be freestanding or architectural.



3.   The sign may be illuminated.



(K)   Long Term Display Of Banners And Decorations: Banners and
decorations licensed under section 10-4-5 of this code are exempt from the
provisions of the sign regulations of this chapter.



(L)   Window Promotional Signs: Window promotional signs are permitted for
periods up to sixty (60) consecutive days in the following districts: C-1,
C-2, I-1, l-2, A-1 and A-2.  (Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008; Ord. 10-2384,
12-20-2010)



10-4-12:  NONCONFORMING SIGNS:



(A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for the
regulation of signs and signs structures that legally existed prior to the
effective date hereof, but which failed to comply with one or more of the
applicable regulations or standards. It is the intent of this section to
specify those circumstances and conditions under which such nonconformities
shall be permitted to continue.



(B)   Applicability: This section applies to nonconforming signs and signs
structures that were originally allowed and have been maintained over time.
These signs and signs structures have legal nonconforming status and they
continue so long as they are otherwise legal. Nonconforming signs and signs
structured that were not permitted when they were established but have been
maintained over time have no legal right to continue and shall be terminated.



(C)   Status of Legal Nonconforming Signs: Any on premises or off premises
sign or billboard which was lawfully established, erected or affixed prior to
the effective date hereof and which comply with all regulations in force at
the time it was erected or affixed, but which failed to conform to all
applicable regulations and restrictions of this title, shall be considered a
legal nonconforming sign or billboard. A legal nonconforming sign or
billboard may be continued so long as it is otherwise in conformance with
these standards and is maintained in good condition. The owner of a
nonconforming sign or billboard shall register the sign or billboard with the
building official and shall provide documentation of the prior existence of
the nonconformity within twelve (12) months of notification of the city of
the nonconformity, and said documentation shall include:



1.   A dated receipt for sale or erection from a signed contract or a
signed shop; or



2.   Dated utility bill for separate meter to service the sign or
billboard or advertise; or



3.   Advertisements with a photograph of the sign or billboard and date of
publication; or



4.   Other evidence showing that the sign existed prior to the effective
date hereof.



(D)   Certificate of Nonconforming Use: If the building official
determines that the nonconforming sign was permitted at the time and has been
legally maintained over time, the building official will issue a certificate
of nonconforming use to the applicant.



(E)   Conditions Under which Nonconforming Signs are Permitted: An
existing nonconforming sign may continue to be used subject to the following
conditions:



1.   The message displayed on a nonconforming sign or billboard may be
changed, and painted messages on a nonconforming sign or billboard may be
repainted.



2.   A non-illuminated, nonconforming sign or billboard shall not be
illuminated.



3.   A nonconforming on premises sign may be changed or altered for the
express purpose of making it a conforming sign.



4.   In order to eliminate an unsafe condition, the building official may
order that repairs and/or alterations be made to a nonconforming sign or
billboard. Such ordered repairs shall be the minimum necessary to correct an
unsafe condition.



5.   The type of materials used in the construction of the structural
elements of a sign or billboard shall be changed after the date the sign or
billboard becomes a nonconforming sign nor shall structural alterations be
made to a nonconforming sign or billboard.



6.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed so as to permit
the enlargement of a nonconforming sign or billboard.



(F)   Conditions Under which Nonconforming Signs and Billboards are Not
Permitted: Under the following conditions, a nonconforming sign shall be
removed or brought into conformance with this title:



1.   Illegal Sign or Billboard: The sign or billboard was not established
or expanded in conformance with the regulations or this chapter or previous
ordinances adopted by the city to regulate advertising of signs.



2.   Construction or Damage: If any nonconforming sign or billboard is
destroyed or damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
replacement costs of the sign and its structure, as determined by a certified
real estate appraiser, or the city building official, the sign or billboard
shall not be replaced.



3.   Excessive Maintenance or Repairs: If the value of maintenance and
repairs to ensure the safety and compliance of the billboard or sign with the
regulations of this chapter is fifty percent (50%) or more of the fair market
value of the sign prior to the repairs, as determined by said real estate
appraiser or building official, the sign or billboard shall be brought into
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Value shall be based on
material costs and labor based upon prevailing wage rates.



4.   Cessation of Use of Property: A nonconforming sign shall be removed
or made to conform to all of the requirements of this chapter if one of the
following occurs:



a.   The use of the property for which the sign was intended to advertise
is discontinued for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days.



b.   The product or services offered on the site for which the sign was
intended are no longer offered for a period of ninety (90) days.



c.   The nonconforming sign or billboard ceases to be used for the purpose
for which it was intended for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days.



5.   Prohibited Nonconforming Signs or Billboards: Any sign that is
prohibited under this chapter shall be removed or made to conform to the
current sign regulations within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of
nonconformity. Provided, however, that the owner may appeal the removal of
requirement, which may be heard by the city zoning board within thirty (30)
days, if the applicant files the appeal to the zoning board. Final approval
of the zoning board recommendation shall be made by the city council of the
city of Flora as soon as practicable thereafter. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-13:  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR SIGNS:



(A)   The construction and maintenance performance standards for signs
contained in the international building code as adopted as part of the city
code shall be the performance standards for the construction and continual
maintenance of signs regulated by this chapter unless otherwise specified in
this chapter.



(B)   All components of a sign shall be kept clean, in good repair and
free from all electrical and mechanical hazards, including, but not limited
to, faulty wiring, loose connections, missing or broken panels, etc.



(C)   Signs and their support structure(s) shall be painted when necessary
to prevent corrosion or to replace peeling or flaking paint.



(D)   Any sign in violation of the construction and maintenance
performance standards shall be repaired or removed within thirty (30) days
after written notice from the administrative official. The notice to repair
or remove the sign shall be served on the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the property upon which the sign is found.



(E)   Inspections: The building official shall inspect or cause to be
inspected all signs and shall require the removal of any sign found to have
been established in violation of this chapter. The building official shall
require the removal or repair of any sign that is:



1.   Not securely affixed to a substantial structure or anchored to the
ground.



2.   Not in good repair.



3.   Related to a business or product which is no longer in operation or
unavailable.



4.   Unclean or faded to such an extent as to be unsightly.



5.   Creating a dangerous or unsafe condition for traffic or pedestrians.



(F)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with the order of the administrative official to repair or remove the
sign shall be in violation of this section. In addition to the penalties
provided for in section 10-4-18 of this chapter, the administrative official
is hereby authorized to make application to the courts for an injunction
requiring compliance with this code ordering the repair or removal of the
sign. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-14:  EXEMPT SIGNS: 



Except as noted below, the following signs are excluded from regulation under
this chapter. Exemption from this chapter does not exempt property owners
from duties and responsibilities established by private deed restrictions or
covenants.



(A)   Residential Signs: Signs not exceeding one square foot in an area
that are customarily associated with residential use, such as signs
identifying the name or numbers or signs on mail boxes and are not of
commercial nature, except permitted home occupations.



(B)   Governmental Signs: Signs directed by, or on behalf of, or pursuant
to the authorization by governmental body.



(C)   Flags: The United States flag, the Illinois state flag and any local
government flag shall be excluded from the maximum allowable signed area:
however, business, company, institutional and any other nongovernmental flags
shall be included in the total allowable signage of a premises.



(D)   Decorative / Architectural Features: Holiday season decorations and
signage; historic plaques, cornerstone and commemorative plaques; integral,
decorative or architectural features of buildings or works of art, so long as
such features or words do not contain letters, trademarks or moving parts;
seasonal and festive pennants; provided, that any commercial message does not
exceed the lesser of two square feet or ten percent (10%) of the pennant.



(E)   Directional Signs: All premises, directional signs visible from an
abutting street; provided that they do not exceed six (6) square feet per
sign space or three (3) feet of height or interfere with visibility for
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.



(F)   Vehicular Signs: Signs painted or otherwise permanently attached to
currently licensed and operative motor vehicles.



(G)   Noncommercial Signs: Signs expressing constitutionally protected
speech not otherwise addressed herein; church, school and college bulletin
board not exceeding twenty (20) square feet, periodic event signs, community
carnival and events signs.



(H)   Traffic Signs: Traffic signs authorized by the acting city council
or other public agency having authority over public use of right-of-way.



(I)   Warning Signs: Warning signs, no trespassing, no hunting and other
similar signs.



(J)   Community Event Signs: Community event signs shall have the same
size restrictions as temporary signs and may be displayed up to thirty (30)
days prior to the first day of the event and must be taken down no later than
seven (7) days after the last day of the event. Community signs must not be
attached to any existing sign structure. Community event signs do not count
as temporary signs for the business and do not count toward the maximum
signed area for the site they are located.



(K)   Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs shall be placed on the premises
of the property that is for sale or lease. No sign shall be placed in a
public right-of-way or on the boulevard. Signs size shall be limited to nine
(9) square feet in any residential district and thirty-two (32) square feet
in any commercial or industrial district. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-15:  FLAGS AND FLAGPOLES: 



The design and construction of the flag pole shall comply with the table set
forth hereinbelow. Business and company, institution or any other
nongovernmental flag shall be included in the calculation of total liable
signage. No flagpole shall be erected or installed without first obtaining a
permit. Decorative flags or banners such as birthday, holiday, or similar
times used on residential lawns are exempt from these requirements.



 


Zoning District

 
Types of Flags Permitted
 
Maximum Number of Flags in Addition to Signs
 
Maximum Flagpole Height
 
Maximum Flag Size


All Districts
 
Any city, county, state, national, United Nations, military or governmental
flag and organizational flags.
 
1 per lot, parcel or tract
 
30 feet
 
6 feet by 10 feet


United States Flag and the Illinois State Flag
 
No maximum number
 
50 feet
 
10 feet by 15 feet
 


Commercial and Industrial
 
Official or organizational
 
2
 
See above
 
See above



 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-16:  CITY OWNED REAL ESTATE: 



No signs shall be placed on city owned or maintained real estate without the
permission of the city council of the city of Flora, Illinois except signs
used for traffic control or specific designations as adopted by the city
council of the city of Flora, Illinois. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-17:  APPEALS OR PETITIONS FOR VARIANCE: 



Any decision made by the building official regarding the applicability of
this ordinance to any particular sign or location may be appealed to the
zoning board of the city of Flora, Illinois. The appeal process shall be the
same as set forth in chapter 21 section 2 of the zoning ordinances of the
city of Flora, Illinois. However, any decision made by the zoning board shall
be provided to the city council of the city of Flora, Illinois for approval
or disapproval thereof. The decision of the zoning board shall not be final
until such time as the city council of the city of Flora, Illinois has either
approved or disapproved the action of the zoning board.



In the event the application of individual or entity for a signed permit
would be denied due to regulations contained in chapter 10 section 4, the
applicant may petition the zoning board for a variance to the sign
regulations. The petition for a variance shall follow the procedure set forth
in chapter 22 of the zoning ordinances and each subparagraph thereto. The
applicant shall pay all costs associated therewith as described in chapter 22
of the zoning regulations. In addition thereto, any individual desiring to
place a sign off premises as designated in section 10-4-7(A) hereinabove
shall petition the zoning board for approval or disapproval of the off
premises sign. The zoning board shall consider the petition for the off
premises sign as it would any other petition of the zoning ordinances
including a petition for special use or variance in making its findings. Said
action of the zoning board on the petition shall be submitted to the city
council of the city of Flora, Illinois for approval or disapproval. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



10-4-18:  PENALTIES: 



Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation continues. All violations of this
chapter are hereby determined to be a nuisance which may be abated or
enjoined by the city. Nothing in this chapter shall exempt the city or any
person from seeking civil remedies against any person or entity who is in
violation of this chapter. Furthermore, in addition to any fine, any
individual or entity in violation of any portion of this chapter shall also
be liable for payment of any cost in the enforcement of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, attorneys fees, court costs, fees for removal
of the violation and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the same
costs by the offending party regardless of whether court action is used by
the city to enforce this chapter. 



(Ord. 08-2139, 3-17-2008)



CHAPTER 5
WIND TURBINE REGULATIONS



10-5-1: INTENT:



The intent to this chapter regarding wind energy conversion systems is to:



(A)   Provide regulations for the construction and operation of wind
energy conversion systems in the city of Flora and within the one and
one-half (1.5) mile radius (extraterritorial jurisdiction) zoning
jurisdiction of the city of Flora.



(B)   Provide regulations to facilitate the development of wind energy
conversion systems, while protecting adjacent land uses from adverse noise,
visual, and other negative impacts that may be associated with a wind energy
conversion system.



(C)   Facilitate the development of low impact, sustainable energy sources
within the city of Flora and its jurisdiction.  (Ord. 10-2376, 10-4-2010)



10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:



The following terms when used in this chapter shall have the meaning
specified herein except where the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.



DIAMETER, ROTOR:  The length of any rotor, or blade, as measured from the
tip of the rotor to the center of the turbine multiplied by two (2).



EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:  Any area which is located outside, but
within one and one-half (1.5) miles of the corporate limits of the city of
Flora, Illinois.



EXTRATERRITORIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM OR EXTRATERRITORIAL WECS: 
Any WECS which is or may be located within the energy conversion 
extra-territorial jurisdiction.



FACILITY OWNER:  Any person or entity having an equity interest in a WECS.



INSTITUTIONAL USE:  An educational facility, golf course, sports arena,
religious institution, athletic field or publicly owned property, provided
that, said term shall exclude parks and cemeteries whether publicly or
privately owned.



OPERATOR:  Any person or entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of a WECS.



PUBLICLY OWNED PROPERTY:  Land, buildings or structures owned by any
governmental body or public agency including city, county, state or federally
owned properties, other than public rights-of-way.



SHADOW FLICKER:  The moving shadows or shaded areas which are cast by
rotating turbine blades.



SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM OR SMALL WECS:  Any wind energy
conversion system consisting of a single wind turbine having a maximum
generating capacity of  one hundred (100) kw, which is intended to generate
energy for any contiguous property primarily for the use or consumption on
that property.



TOWER, MONOPOLE:  A wind energy conversion system tower consisting of a
single pole, constructed without guy wires and anchors.



WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM OR WECS:  An electric generating facility,
whose main purpose is to supply wind-generated electricity, consisting of one
(1) or more wind turbines and other accessory structures and buildings,
including substations, meteorological towers, electrical infrastructure,
transmission lines and other appurtenant structures and facilities.



WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM HEIGHT:  The height of a freestanding wind
energy conversion system must be measured as the distance from the ground
level to the highest point on the tower, including the vertical length of any
extensions such as the rotor blade. The height of a building mounted wind
energy conversion system shall be measured as the distance from the point
where the base of the system is attached to the building or to the lowest
point on the wind energy conversion system, whichever is closer to the
ground, to the highest point on the wind energy conversion system, including
the vertical length of any extensions such as the rotor blade.



WIND ENERGY CONVERSION STRUCTURE OR WIND TURBINE:  A device that converts
wind energy into electricity through the use of either a horizontal or
vertical axis wind turbine generator, and includes the nacelle, rotor, tower
and pad transformer, if any.



WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED:  A wind energy conversion
system located on a building.



WIND FARM:  Any wind energy conversion system other than a small wind energy
conversion system as defined in this section.  (Ord. 10-2376, 10-4-2010)



10-5-3: SITE REQUIREMENTS:



In addition to meeting any other applicable requirements in this code, wind
energy conversion systems shall be constructed in accordance with the
restrictions set forth in this section.



(A)   Wind Energy Conversion Structure Height and Rotor Blade Diameter
Restrictions. The height of a wind energy conversion structure and the
diameter of the motor blade shall not exceed the following restrictions for
various uses and zoning districts. The height of a wind energy conversion
structure shall be measured from ground level to the top of the highest blade
at the highest point extended.



   1.   For single- and two-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings,
and non-residential uses within the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-1, mobile home
parks, C-1 and C-2 zoning districts the maximum height of a wind energy
conversion structure, may not exceed one hundred (100) feet. The maximum
diameter, as measured from the tip of the rotor or blade to the center of the
turbine multiplied by two (2), shall not exceed fifty (50) feet.



   2.   For any use that is located in an A-1, A-2, I-1 and I-2 and
located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the boundary of a lot zoned or
planned for residential land use, the maximum height of a wind energy
conversion structure shall be one hundred (100) feet and the maximum diameter
of the rotors, or the blades, shall be fifty (50) feet. For any use that is
located in a non-residential district and more than one thousand (1,000) feet
away from any boundary of a lot zoned or planned for residential use the
maximum height of a wind energy conversion structure shall be one hundred
seventy five (175) feet. The maximum diameter, as measured from the tip of
the rotor or blade to the center of the turbine multiplied by two (2), shall
not exceed one hundred (100) feet.



   3.   Building mounted wind energy conversion systems in residential
zoning districts shall not exceed ten (10) feel higher than the highest point
on the roof of the structure it is mounted to.



(B)   Setbacks.



   1.   Setback Requirements for Wind Energy Conversion Structures. The
minimum setback from the property line for any wind energy conversion
structure shall be the total height of said structure measured from ground
level.



(C)   Noise.



   1.   No wind energy conversion system or combination of wind energy
conversion systems on a single parcel shall create noise that exceeds the
regulatory standards set by the Illinois EPA pollution control board at any
property line where the property on which the wind energy conversion system
is located. Measurement of sound levels shall not be adjusted for, or
averaged with, non-operating periods. Any wind energy conversion system
exceeding this level shall immediately cease operation upon notification by
the city of Flora zoning administrator and may not resume operating until the
noise levels have been reduced in compliance with the required standards and
verified by an independent third party inspector, approved by the city of
Flora, at the property owner's expense. Upon review and acceptance of the
third party noise level report, the city of Flora will allow operation of the
wind energy conversion system.



(D)   Multiple Wind Systems.



   1.   Multiple wind systems may be allowed if they meet all
regulations as required herein.



   2.   The number of wind turbines on any given parcel of land shall
be limited to:



      (a)   Three (3) wind energy conversion structures for parcels
of land having an area of five (5) acres or less.



      (b)   Five (5) wind energy conversion structures for parcels
of land having an area greater than five (5) acres and not exceeding ten (10)
acres.



      (c)   There shall be no limit to the number of wind energy
conversion structures for parcels of land having an area greater than ten
(10) acres.



   3.   There shall be no limit to the number of roof mounted wind
energy conversion systems on any given parcel of land.



(E)   Force Wind Standards.



   1.    Wind energy conversion systems must be engineered to withstand
wind forces of up to one hundred ten (110) miles per hour. Furthermore, the
tower and the foundation used for any WECS shall be designed and approved by
and Illinois licensed structural engineer.



(F)   Removal of Nuisance Wind Systems or Turbines.



   1.   The wind energy conversion system or individual turbine is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance if it has been inoperable or has not
been operated to generate any electricity for one hundred eighty (180) or
more consecutive days.



   2.   Upon receipt of written notice from the zoning administrator or
administrator's designee that a wind energy conversion system or individual
wind turbine has become a public nuisance as defined in paragraph (1) above,
the owner of a wind energy conversion system and associated facilities shall
have one hundred eighty (180) days to restore the wind energy conversion
system or individual turbine to operating condition and operation for the
generation of electricity or remove it from the property, provided that in
the event the zoning administrator or administrator's designee determines
that, because of its condition, the WECS or individual turbine poses a great
and immediate threat to the public health, safety or welfare, then the city
may remove the structure(s) that specifically pose such a great and immediate
threat without any prior notice to said owner, assess the owner for all costs
incurred for said remove and file a lien for said costs in the manner
provided herein.



   3.   A written notice of public nuisance described herein may be
personally delivered to the owner or authorized agent of the WECS in
question, or delivered by first class U.S. mail. A written notice delivered
by first class U.S. mail shall be deemed received by said owner three (3)
business days after its deposit in the U.S. mail system.



   4.   The failure of any owner to comply with the requirements to
either restore to operation or remove a public nuisance WECS or individual
turbine as provided herein shall be deemed a violation of this zoning
ordinance and shall be deemed implied consent by said owner to the city to
allow the city to remove, or hire someone else to remove said wind system or
individual turbine, as the case may be, and to charge said owner for the
entire cost of said removal. Said cost of removal incurred by the city shall
be deemed a lien against the property, and the city shall be authorized to
file a notice of said lien in the office of the Clay County recorder of deeds
for the cost of removing the wind energy conversion system. Removal of a wind
energy conversion system that constitutes a public nuisance shall include
removal of the turbines, tower, and any above ground improvements, including
fencing.



   5.   The city may foreclose upon any lien for removal costs as
provided herein in accordance with the procedures provided for foreclosure of
a mortgage in the Illinois mortgage foreclosure caw, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5,
§§ 15-1101 et seq., and any amendments thereto.



(G)   Signage.



   1.   Commercial marking, messages, banners, or signs of any kind on
the wind energy conversion system or tower shall be prohibited.



(H)   Tower Access.



   1.   The tower shall not be accessible for climbing. No rungs shall
be provided for the first twelve (12) feet of the tower, the climbing
apparatus shall be covered, and any other approved preventative measures,
which may be applicable.



(I)   Color.



   1.   The exterior color of the wind energy conversion system shall
be limited to black, off-white and grey, and the surface shall be
non-reflective.



(J)   Lighting.



   1.   No lights shall be installed on the tower, unless required to
meet FAA regulations.



(K)   Permit for Extraterritorial Wind Energy Conversion Systems.



   1.   An application to site and construct an extraterritorial WECS
shall be considered by the city in the same manner as if the applicant had
submitted an application for the placement of a WECS within the corporate
limits of the city. The applicant, facility owner, operator and any
participating landowner with respect to any approved application for an
extraterritorial WECS shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this
code and any approving ordinance or resolution in the same fashion and to the
same extent as if the WECS were located within the corporate limits of the
city.



(L)   Shadow Flicker.



   1.   Wind conversion energy systems shall be designed and located to
minimize shadow flicker. Shadow flicker expected to fall on a roadway or a
residential structure shall be acceptable under the following circumstances:



      (a)   The flicker, assuming sunlight will not be obscured by
cloud cover during the entire course of the year, will not fall on the
location of concern for more than thirty (30) hours per year; and



      (b)   With regards to flicker falling on roadways, the traffic
volumes are less than two hundred (200) vehicles per day on the roadway.



   2.   The applicant shall provide a shadow flicker model for any wind
energy conversion system over one hundred fifty (150) feet tall. The shadow
flicker model shall demonstrate that the wind energy conversion system meets
the stated provisions.



(M)   Vibrations.



      1.   The wind energy conversion structure shall not cause any
vibrations detectible by persons without the aid of scientific instruments on
any adjacent property.



(N)   Tower Type.



   1.   In residential districts, the type of tower a wind turbine may
be mounted on shall be restricted to a monopole tower. No pole/tower for the
wind energy conversion structure shall be mounted on or attached to a
building or structure.



(O)   Minimum Ground Clearance.



   1.   The blade tip of a wind energy conversion system, at its lowest
point, shall have a ground clearance of no less than twenty (20) feet.



(P)   Electromagnetic Interference.



   1.   The wind energy conversion system shall not cause any
electromagnetic interference with any radio, television, microwave
communication or satellite navigation on other properties.



   2.   If the wind energy conversion system is found to cause
electromagnetic interference on other properties, the owner shall make any
necessary and reasonable changes to the wind energy conversion system within
ninety (90) days of notice from the zoning administrator, including removal
or relocation of the wind energy conversion system to eliminate any
electromagnetic interference.



(Q)   Energy Efficient Subdivision.



   1.   Any subdivision which is developed with the specific intention
of providing wind energy to the property owners within the subdivision shall
be allowed to construct a wind energy conversion system on a common lot to be
maintained by the home owners association.



      (a)   A wind energy conversion system within an energy
efficient subdivision shall not be required to meet any setbacks.



      (b)   A wind energy conversion system within an energy
efficient subdivision shall be required to be constructed prior to the
issuance of any building permits for any structures within the subdivision.



      (c)   A wind energy conversion system within an energy
efficient subdivision shall not exceed a maximum height of a wind energy
conversion structure shall be one hundred seventy five (175) feet. The
maximum diameter of the rotors, or the blades, for wind energy conversion
systems more than one hundred (100) feet.



      (d)   A wind energy conversion system within an energy
efficient subdivision shall meet all other requirements of this chapter.



(R)   Proposed Wind Energy Conservation Systems Exceeding the Height
Regulations of this Chapter.



   1.   Proposed wind energy conversion systems which exceed the height
limitation of this chapter shall be required to submit a special use permit
application pursuant to the zoning ordinances.



   2.   The proposed special use permit shall meet the following
findings of fact:



      (a)   That the proposed wind energy conversion system is
designed, located and proposed to be operated so that it will not be
unreasonably injurious or unreasonably detrimental to the district in which
it may be located or otherwise injurious to the public welfare. It shall be
the applicant's burden to submit evidence to demonstrate the anticipated
impacts of the proposed wind energy conversion system.



      (b)   Other than height regulations in this section, the
proposed use conforms to all the applicable regulations and standards of the
district in which it shall be located.



      (c)   That the proposed use is consistent with the city of
Flora comprehensive plan.



   3.   The issuance of a special use permit for a wind energy
conversion system to exceed the height limitations of this chapter shall only
be allowed in A-1, A-2, I-1 and I-2 zoning districts. A special use permit
for a wind energy conversion system to exceed the height shall be allowed in
the city of Flora's extraterritorial jurisdiction in areas that are one
thousand five hundred (1,500) feet away from any residential land use or
areas planned for residential land uses.



   4.   The applicant shall submit the following documentation as part
of the special use permit application:



      (a)   A noise study, prepared by a qualified professional,
demonstrates that except for intermittent episodes, the wind energy
conversion system shall not emit noise in excess of the limits established by
the state of Illinois pollution control board. The noise study shall include:



         1.   A description and map of the projects noise
producing features, including the range of noise levels expected, and the
basis of the expectation.



         2.   A description and map of the noise sensitive
environment, including any sensitive noise receptors e.g. residences,
hospitals, libraries, schools, place of worship, parks area with outdoor
workers and other facilities where quiet is important or where noise could be
a nuisance within one thousand (1,000) feet.



         3.   A description and map of the cumulative noise
impacts of any problem area identified.



         4.   A description of the project's proposed noise
control features and specific measures proposed to mitigate noise impacts for
sensitive receptors as identified above to a level of insignificance.



      (b)   A shadow flicker model that demonstrates that shadow
flicker shall not fall on, or in, any existing residential structure and that
establishes that shadow flicker expected to fall on a roadway or a portion of
a residentially zoned parcel may be acceptable if the flicker does not exceed
thirty (30) hours per year at the location of concern; and the flicker will
fall more than one hundred (100) feet from an existing residence; or the
traffic volumes are less than five hundred (500) vehicles on the roadway that
is impacted by the flicker. The shadow flicker model shall:



         1.   Map and describe within a one thousand (1,000) foot
radius of the proposed dispersed wind energy system the topography, existing
residences and location of their windows, location of other structures, wind
speeds and directions, existing vegetation and roadways. The model shall
represent the most probable scenarios of wind constancy, sunshine constancy,
and wind directions and speed;



         2.   Calculate the locations of shadow flicker caused by
the proposed project and the expected durations of the flicker at these
locations, calculate the total number of houses per year of flicker at all
locations;



         3.   Identify problem areas where shadow flicker will
interfere with existing of future residences and roadways and describe
proposed mitigation measures, including, but not limited to, a change in
siting of the wind energy conversion system, a change in the operation of the
wind energy conversion system or grading or landscaping mitigation
measures.  (Ord. 10-2376, 10-4-2010)



10-5-4: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODES:



All wind energy structures and the construction of said system shall comply
with the building codes of the city of Flora, Illinois, state of Illinois and
any federal or state regulations. The building codes of the city of Flora
shall apply only to those structures within the city limits of the city of
Flora, Illinois and not to the one and one-half (1.5) mile extraterritorial
jurisdiction. Furthermore, all utility companies which are effected by the
construction of the wind energy conversion system shall be notified of any
possible disruption of services to said facility and so as not to cause
feedback into any lines owned by the utility service to the residents or
other structure being serviced by the wind energy conversion system.  (Ord.
10-2376, 10-4-2010)



10-5-5: APPLICATION AND PERMIT: 



Any party desiring to construct any type of wind energy conversion system set
forth in this chapter shall submit an application to the city building
official and zoning official outlining the type of wind energy conversion
system as well as fulfilling all obligations of this chapter as required. A
building permit shall be issued by the building official once said official
determines that the construction of the wind energy conversion system will be
in compliance with this chapter.  Likewise, the city zoning official shall
review the application to determine whether said structure meets with the
applicable zoning ordinances within the city of Flora, Illinois and if the
same does comply, the zoning administrator shall provide approval to the
applicant.  (Ord. 10- 2376, 10-4-2010)



10-5-6: PENALTIES:



Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than one hundred ($100.00) dollars nor more than seven
hundred fifty ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation continues. All violations of this
chapter are hereby determined to be a nuisance which may be abated or
adjoined by the city. Nothing in this chapter shall exempt the city or any
person from seeking civil remedies against any person or entities who is in
violation of this chapter. Furthermore, in addition to any fine, any
individual or entity in violation of any portion of this chapter shall also
be liable for payment of any costs in the enforcement of this chapter,
including, but not limited to attorney's fees, court costs, fees for removal
of the violation and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the same
costs by the offending party regardless of whether court action is used by
the city to enforce this chapter and any provisions thereof. The costs may be
added to the fines as described hereinabove.  (Ord. 10-2376, 10-4-2010)



APPENDIX



APPENDIX A
ANNEXATIONS



 

Ord. No.
 
Date
 




769
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city.


794
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Lieberman, Brooks, Phillips and
Etchison)


65-3
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Case)


69-71
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Henson 14.209 acres- North Olive)


69-75
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (11.137 acres N. by U.S. 45 and
50-Fulton, Henson and Tr. park)


69-86
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Parts of Fairview addition)


69-87
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Lot 14 Kinnamon subdivision-parts of
Hoff addition)


70-88
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Lots 1-13 of Kinnamon subdivision)


71-98
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Lots 28, 21 and part of 20 of G.A.
Hoff-State and 13th)


71-99
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Lots 15, 16, 17 Kinnamon fronts 12th)


72-125
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Jr. high school)


73-185
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Eighner and neighbors)


74-196
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Briscoe property-Ind. park)


74-203
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Business properties in Briscoe tract)


74-218
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Youngblood property-Campbell)


74-225
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Hollands and Airport)


75-272
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Raintree)


75-276
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Graham property)


76-302
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Armstrong property)


76-303
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Hayes and Smith)


76-321
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Portion of Ben Cunningham
subdivision)


76-330
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Jerry Middleton)


77-353
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Oliver in G.A. Hoff addition)


78-403
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (John Zink)


79-447
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Pinjak, Davis, Headlee, Corry and
Mack)


79-457
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Lots 22, 27 and 30 G.A. Hoff
Addition)


80-474
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Part of Fairview addition-Campbell
Avenue)


85-703
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (3B Restaurants-Rex)


85-710
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Manley Richardson)


85-711
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Gary Hagen)


85-720
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Druthers Restaurant)


85-736
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Stanford-N. State)


89-1009
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (12th and 13th Sts)


92-1132-A
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Dickey and Lauderback)


93-1164
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Klien Family)


96-1279
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Flora Bank and Trust)


96-1280
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Slobodzian)


96-1329
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Gill, Wilkin and Smock-W. 12th)


97-1400
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Bisel-on Rt. 45)


97-1401
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Watson-on Rt. 45)


97-1402
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Bisel-on Rt. 45)


98-1418
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Clay Co. Hospital)


99-1509
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Tim and Julie Pearce)


99-1536
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (N. State Street)


99-1541
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Webster)


01-1647
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Airport authority)


01-1657
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Heath Property)


03-1800
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Hoffman property)


04-1829
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (N. State Rd.-Lift station)


04-1852
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Charles and Sharon Burk)


05-1913
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Wal-Mart)


07- 2041
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Old Rt. 50 West to Charley Brown
Park)


08- 2164
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Effingham-Clay Service Co.)


09-2237
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Fruend, Pearce, Mock, Wright, Adams,
Childers, Carpenter, Scott - Old Rt. 50 West)


09-2274
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Brent & Jennifer Winka - N. State
Rd.)


09-2282
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Casolari, Eriks, Bowen, Porter,
Pride, Young, Moore, Shehorn, Booth - Old Rt. 50 West)


09-2290
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Sparlin - Old Rt. 50 West)


09-2303
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Headlee)


09-2307
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Carpenter, Sanders, O'Dell)


10-2377
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Dehart, Grace)


10-2380
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Smith)


11-2410
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Leathers, N. State Road)


11-2462
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city.  (Cook)


12-2541
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Builder's Supply Subdivision)


13-2545
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Tract I: West 3rd Street; Tract II:
U.S. 45)


16-2762
 
 
 
Annexing certain territory to the city. (Coble)


16-2778
 
 
 
Disconnecting certain territory from the city. (James)


18-2972
 
4-2-2018
 
Annexing certain real estate owned by the city.


18-2973
 
4-2-2018
 
Annexing certain real estate to the city. (Dickey, Hosselton)


 
 
 
 
 









APPENDIX B
VACATIONS



 

Ord. No.
 
Date
 




160
 
 
 
Vacating a certain portion of the street called Railroad Street in the city.


437
 
 
 
Vacating a portion of South Avenue in the city.


458
 
 
 
Vacating a certain portion of the street known as South Avenue in the city.


464
 
 
 
Vacating a certain portion of the street called Railroad Street in the city.


485
 
 
 
Vacate a portion of Main Street in the city.


486
 
 
 
Vacate a portion of North Avenue in the city.


488
 
 
 
Vacate portions of South Avenue and Elm Street in the city.


533
 
 
 
Vacating a portion of Foster Street in the city.


542
 
 
 
Vacate an alley in H.M. Dulaney's addition to the city.


543
 
 
 
Vacate a certain street lying and being in the Snyder addition to the city.


611
 
 
 
Vacate a portion of Maple Street in the city.


668
 
 
 
Vacating six feet (6') of even width off of the east side of Oak Street north
of Fourth Street in the city.


699
 
 
 
Vacating part of Short Street in the city.


722
 
 
 
Vacate a portion of West Second Street (also known as Wilson Street) in the
city.


751
 
 
 
The public alley separating lots 5 and 6 of block 37 of the original town,
now city of Flora, and lots 13 and 16 of William White's addition to the
city, is hereby vacated as a public alley.


 
 
 
 
The public alley separating lots 14 and 15 of William White's addition to the
city, is hereby vacated as a public alley.


752
 
 
 
The public alley separating lots 6 and 7 of block 37 of the original town,
now city of Flora, and lots  13 and 16 of William White's addition to the
city, is hereby vacated as a public alley.


 
 
 
 
The public alley separating lots 14 and 15 of William White's addition to the
city, is hereby vacated as a public alley.


784
 
 
 
The public alley separating lots 6 and 7 of William White's first addition to
the town (now city), is hereby vacated as a public alley.


67-31
 
 
 
Vacating a portion of alley.


68-52
 
 
 
Vacating portions of streets.


68-56
 
 
 
Vacating a public alley of the city.


75-246
 
 
 
The 26.4 foot alley extending along the easterly side of block number 3 in
Durland's third addition from Seventh Street to Sixth Street, be and the same
is hereby vacated.


 
 
 
 
The 26.4 foot alley extending along the easterly side of block number 4 in
Durland's third addition from Sixth Street to Fifth Street, be and the same
is hereby vacated.


76-299
 
 
 
The street previously known as Standford Street between East Drive and Field
Avenue be and the same is hereby vacated.


76-313
 
 
 
Vacating part of alley in Homestead Heights subdivision.


78-406
 
 
 
Vacating the alley between State Street and Elm Street separating lots 7 and
8 of block 3 of the original town (now city) of Flora, Illinois, from lot six
(6) of block three (3) of the original town (now city) of Flora, Illinois.


 
 
 
 
The alley between State Street and Elm Street separating lots 7 and 8 of
block 3 of the original town (now city) of Flora, Illinois, be, and the same
is hereby vacated; provided, that the city of Flora retains the right to
maintain, operate, repair and replace, by itself or by any licensee or a
holder of a franchise from the city of Flora, any poles, wires, pipes,
conduits, sewer mains, water mains, or any other facility or equipment for
the maintenance or operation of any utility now located in the said alley
vacated by this ordinance.


80-497
 
 
 
All that part of North State Street which might in any way overlap, cover,
cross or encroach upon lots 11 and 12 in block 13 of the original town, now
city, of Flora, Clay County, Illinois, as shown in a plat of survey dated
February 22, 1980, of record in the recorder's office of Clay County,
Illinois, in plat record G on page 75, as microfilm document number 50120, be
vacated.


 
 
 
 
That part of North State Street described in the preceding section 1 be and
the same is hereby vacated.


80-514
 
 
 
The street running East and West between Lots 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Amanda E.
Billings' third addition to the city of Flora, Illinois, be and the same is
hereby vacated.


80-515
 
 
 
It is to the best interest of the public and of the city that all that part
of Lincoln Avenue and Orchard Street of the city of Flora, Clay County,
Illinois, as have situated upon them school buildings of Flora Community Unit
School District Number 35 of Clay and Wayne Counties, Illinois, so as to
constitute an encroachment, as depicted on the attached plat designated
exhibit A, be vacated.


 
 
 
 
Those parts of Lincoln Avenue and Orchard Street referred to in the preceding
section, as have situated upon them school buildings of Flora Community Unit
School District Number 35 so as to constitute an encroachment, as is depicted
on the attached plat designated exhibit A, are hereby vacated.


84-646
 
 
 
Those portions of the following described streets and alleys:


 
 
 
 
Parcel 1


 
 
 
 
All that portion of Locust Street in the Second High School Addition to the
city of Flora, Illinois and being south of Fairview Avenue in said city and
being adjacent to Lots 13 and 14 in said Second High School Addition.


 
 
 
 
Parcel 2


 
 
 
 
All that portion of Lakeside Avenue in the Second High School Addition to the
city of Flora, Illinois from where the same meets with Locust Street and that
lies south of Lots 14, 15, 16 and 17 in said Addition to the east line of
said Lot 17 as extended across Lakeside Avenue.


 
 
 
 
Parcel 3


 
 
 
 
All that portion of an alley platted as sixteen feet (16') in width that lies
between Lots 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 and Lots 14, 15, 16 and 17 in the Second
High School Addition to the city of Flora, Illinois are hereby vacated as
streets and alleys.


85-728
 
 
 
It is in the best interest of the public and of the city of Flora that all
that part of North First Street located within the Fairview addition to the
city of Flora, Clay County, Illinois, and recorded in the recorder's office
of Clay County, Illinois, in plat record book B, pages 16 and 17 be vacated.


 
 
 
 
That part of North First Street described in the preceding paragraph be and
the same is hereby vacated.


85-740
 
 
 
The alley running east and west along the north line of lot 72 and the north
line of lot 71 of Flora B. Golden's addition from College Street to Karr
Street sixteen feet (16') in width, less and excepting therefrom an alley
sixteen feet (16') in width running north and south between lots 71 and 72
and lots 3 and 4 of said addition to be and the same is hereby vacated.


85-747
 
 
 
The public right of way and easement from tract C of Western Terrace
subdivision to the city of Flora as shown on the plat of vacation attached
hereto and made a part hereof, be and the same is hereby vacated by the city
of Flora.


88-913
 
 
 
The public alley between lots 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 to the north and lots 1, 2,
3, 4 and 5 to the south of block 5 of the Fairview addition as set forth in a
certain plat recorded in the office of the recorder of Clay County, Illinois
in book F of plats on page 88, be and the same is hereby vacated by the city
of Flora.


88-938
 
 
 
The public alley between lots 15 and 18 to the west and lots 16 and 17 to the
east in G.A. Hoff's addition to the city of Flora, be and the same is hereby
vacated by the city of Flora.


89-998
 
 
 
Part of parcel d, lot 2, tract 3 of the Flora industrial park, said parcel D
as recorded in plat record book "G" page 81, in the office of the recorder of
deeds of Clay County, Illinois, more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at a point being the Northeast Corner of Lot 2, Tract 3 in the
Flora Industrial Park; thence, S 00°22'30" W along the East line of said Lot
2 a distance of 30.00 feet to an existing iron pin; thence, S 83°42'30" W
along the South right-of-way line of the S.B.I. Route 12 & 25 a distance of
20.00 feet to an iron pin; thence, S 00°22'30" W a distance of 687.66 feet
to an iron pin; thence, S 83°42'30" W a distance of 40.00 feet to an
existing iron pin being hereinafter known as the point of beginning of
easement area; thence, S 00°22'30" W a distance of 50.34 feet to an iron
pin; thence, S 83°42'30" W a distance of 437.34 feet to an iron pin being
the Southwest Corner of Parcel D, Lot 2, Tract 3; thence, N 00°22'30" E
along the West line of Parcel D, Lot 2, Tract 3 a distance of 72.90 feet to
an iron pin; thence, in a Southeasterly direction along a curve to the left,
having a chord bearing of S 86°28'27" E and chord distance of 131.41 feet
and an arc length of 132.05 feet to an iron pin; thence, N 83°42'30" E a
distance of 305.23 feet to the point of beginning, said easement containing
0.408 acres, more or less, Clay County, Illinois, be and the same is hereby
vacated by the city of Flora.


89-1002
 
 
 
The gas right of way being legally described as follows:


 
 
 
 
The West 1/3 of Lot 9 of Block 16 of the Original Town, now city, of Flora,
Illinois;


 
 
 
 
The east 1/3 of lot 8 of block 16 of the original town, now city, of Flora,
Illinois;


 
 
 
 
Be and the same is hereby vacated by the city of Flora, Illinois.


91-1072
 
 
 
A portion of public alley shown in plat recorded in book "C" of plats on page
23 in the office of the recorder of Clay County, Illinois.


92-1117
 
 
 
A portion of the public alley shown in plat recorded in book "A" of plats on
pages 554 and 555 in the office of the recorder of Clay County, Illinois.


92-1215
 
 
 
A portion of the public alley located in block 1 of Lowrey's and Parson's
addition to the city of Flora, Illinois.


96-1293
 
 
 
A portion of a public right of way and sidewalk located in lot 1, block 20 of
the original town, now city, of Flora, Illinois.


96-1296
 
 
 
An alleyway between lots 21, 28, 22 and 27 in G.A. Hoff's addition to the
city of Flora, Illinois, identified in plat record A at page 477 in the
office of the recorder of Clay County, Illinois.


96-1313
 
 
 
An alley in Flora B. Golden's addition.


97-1356
 
 
 
An alley situated immediately south of lots 8, 9 and 10 and immediately north
of lot 7 in block 2 of Fairview addition of the city of Flora, Clay County,
Illinois.


97-1376
 
 
 
That the alley lying south of lot 6 and north of lots 7 and 8 in block 22 in
the original  town of Flora, Clay County, Illinois, and that portion of
Walnut Street as shown by the plat of the original town of Flora, recorded in
deed record I at page 238 lying south of North Avenue and north of the
railroad right of way.


98-1430
 
 
 
A portion of South Avenue located directly south of lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9
in block 27 in the original town, now city of Flora, Illinois.


00-1618
 
 
 
Dode Briscoe Drive.


00-1623
 
 
 
A portion of Walnut Street within the city of Flora, Illinois.


02-1738
 
 
 
A portion of an alleyway located in the city of Flora, Illinois.


02-1741
 
 
 
A portion of Walnut Street located in the city of Flora, Illinois.


09-2213
 
 
 
Alleyway - Vincennes/Austin Avenues.


11-2389
 
 
 
Alleyway located between lots 13, 20 and 14 and 19 of G.A. Hoff's Addition


12-2476
 
 
 
Portion of alleyway located in the city of Flora, Illinois, east of
Princewood Drive and south of Flora Motel.


13-2574
 
 
 
Alleyway in Fairview Subdivision.


13-2593
 
 
 
Alleyway located between lots 29, 30, 35, 36, 37, 38, 43 and 44 of the G.A.
Hoff Addition.


15-2701
 
 
 
Alleyway located in block 14 of the original town.


15-2717
 
 
 
An alleyway in J. Heogorty’s Addition, an alleyway in Lowry and Parsons
Addition, and that part of East Second Street between Olive Street and Oak
Street.


17-2802
 
 
 
All of Bradley Street, a portion of Granger Boulevard and a portion of West
Fourth Street.


17-2949
 
10-2-2017
 
Alleyway situated south of Lot 34 and north of Lots 39 and 42 in G.A. Hoff's
Subdivision of Lot 11, south of Lot 34 and north of Lots 39 and 42.


18-2968
 
3-19-2018
 
Alleyway and roadway in Brooks' Subdivision lying immediately south of Lot
Number 2 and a part of Lot Number 2 in the north 1/2 of Section 30, Township
3 North, Range 7 East of the third principal meridian and north of Lot Number
1, being approximately 26.5 feet in width.

Flora Zoning Ordinance

Chapter 1 General Provisions

Index
1.1 Title
1.2 Intent and Purpose
1.3 Jurisdiction
1.4 Annexed territory
1.5 Existing Permits
1.6 Disclaimer of Liability
1.7 Separability
1.8 When Effective
1.1 Title
This Ordinance shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Flora, Illinois.

1.2 Intent and Purpose
This Ordinance continues to regulate the structures and land uses in order to preserve, protect and promote public health, safety and welfare through the implementation of the Flora Comprehensive Plan as previously outlined and adopted by the City Council of Flora, Illinois, on July 16, 1990 as Ordinance No. 90-1046, and as amended or revised. Furthermore, the City Council has taken into consideration the necessary changes based upon growth, public health, safety and welfare. More specifically, this Ordinance is intended to continue to assist in achieving the following objectives:

A. To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate sites in order to maximize community-wide social and economic benefits while accommodating the particular needs of all residents;

B. To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound existing residential, commercial and industrial areas;

C. To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout this municipality;

D. To ensure the provision of adequate light, air and privacy for the occupants of all buildings;

E. To protect property from damage caused by fire, flooding, poorly controlled storm water runoff, and adverse soil and topographical conditions;

F. To provide adequate and well-designed parking and loading space for all buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public streets and highways;

G. To guide the provision of water mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers and other utilities and services, and to reduce the initial costs and future maintenance expenses thereof;

H. To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of all the regulations set forth herein;

I. To clearly and concisely explain the procedures for obtaining variances, special use permits and amendments;

J. To eliminate, add, or reword definitions as contained in the original Ordinance; and

K. To eliminate, identify or create districts.

1.3 Jurisdiction
This Ordinance shall be applicable within the corporate limits of this municipality and within all territory located within the official maps of the City as shown in Exhibits A and B attached hereto and made a part hereof.

1.4 Annexed territory
The Corporate Authority shall determine the zone district of any territory hereafter annexed to the City at the time of annexation. Any new annexed territory will be zoned the same as contiguous and adjacent properties previously lying within the City limits, unless otherwise amended or changed by the filing of the appropriate petitions with the Zoning Board as more fully set forth herein below. A map of the annexed territory shall be provided and the zoning amendment requirements and procedures of the code shall be followed.

1.5 Existing Permits
This code is not intended to abrogate or annul any building permits, certificates of occupancy, variances or other lawful permits issued before the effective date of this revised code; however, any requested change in any permit shall follow the procedures and requirements of this code.

1.6 Disclaimer of Liability
A. Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no officer, board member, agent, or employee of this municipality shall render himself personally liable for any damage that may be accrued to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under this Ordinance. (See "Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act," Ill. Rev. Stat., Chapter 85, Secs. 1-101.)

B. Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee of this municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under this Ordinance, shall be defended by the Municipal Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.

1.7 Separability
If any part or provision of this code or the application thereof to any person, property, or circumstance is adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation and direction to the part, provision, section or application directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the integrity or validity of the remainder of this code or the application thereof to other person, property, or circumstances. The corporate authority hereby declares that it would have enacted the remainder of this code even without any such part, provision, section or application.

1.8 When Effective
This Ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after publication in pamphlet form and the date of filing of such Notice of Adoption of said Zoning Ordinance with the Recorder of Clay County, Illinois.

Chapter 2 Definitions

Index
Definitions
Definitions
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined. Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall include the word "structure" and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.

Abandonment. An action to give up one’s rights of interests in property.

Abutting. Having a common border with or being separated from such common border by an alley or easement.

Accessory Building. An "accessory building" is one which:

1. Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;

2. Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building or principal use served;

3. Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of the principal building or principal use served.

Accessory Use. A subordinate use which is incidental to that of the main building or use and which is located on the same lot with such main building or use.

Administrative Official. The person designated by the City to enforce and administer the provisions of this Title or his duly appointed representative(s).

Agriculture. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, or animal/poultry husbandry. The term "agriculture" encompasses the farmhouse, and accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural activities together with the operation of equipment, machinery and vehicles to perform the listed activities.

Alley. A public or private thoroughfare permanently reserved as a secondary means of access to abutting property.

Apartment. A dwelling or building containing two (2) or more dwelling units, each having a separate kitchen and bath facility.

Automotive Repair. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, trailers; collision services including body, frame or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle steam cleaning.

Automotive Sales. The sale of new or the sale of new and used vehicles, motor homes, recreational vehicles, horse trailers and motorcycles.

Basement. That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade. A basement shall be counted as a story if the vertical distance from the average adjoining grade to the ceiling is over five feet.

Bed and Breakfast. An operator-occupied residence providing accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms for rent, in operation for more than 10 nights in a 12-month period. Breakfast may be provided to the guests only. Bed and breakfast establishments shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food service establishments. This definition shall conform to the definition contained in 50 ILCS 820/2(a), as may be amended from time to time.

Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House. A residential building containing guest rooms where meals and/or lodging for compensation are provided for not exceeding eight (8) persons.

Building. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels, and when separated by diversion walls from the ground up and without openings, each portion of such building shall be considered a separate building.

Building, Height of. The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent established grade, opposite the middle of the front of the building to the highest point of the building for flat roofs; to the deck line for mansard roofs; and to the mean height level (between eaves the ridges) for gable and hip roofs. Where a building is located on a terrace, the height may be measured from the average ground level of the terrace at the front of the building. The height of accessory buildings shall be measured from the floor level, which shall not be raised more than six (6) inches above the normal grade of the lot.

Building Inspector. The person so designated by the City to enforce all laws and codes relating to the construction, removal and demolition of buildings and structures.

Club/Lodge. A nonprofit association of persons who are bonafide members organized from some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial enterprise.

Commercial Uses. Any use or establishment wherein services are rendered or goods are purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other businesses (wholesale).

Day Care Home. A licensed home occupation maintained within a family home which receives not more than eight (8) children within a twenty-four (24) hour period. The maximum of eight (8) children includes the family’s natural or adopted children under age eighteen (18) and those children who are in the home under full time care.

Day Care/Night Care Center. Any child care facility receiving more than eight (8) children for daytime or nighttime care during all or part of a day including facilities commonly called, "child care centers", "day nurseries", "nursery schools", "kindergartens", "play groups", and centers or workshops for mentally or physically handicapped, with or without stated educational purposes. The term does not include kindergartens or nursery schools or other daytime programs operated by public or private school systems or secondary level school units or institutions of higher learning.

Detached. As applied to buildings, "detached" means unconnected to a primary building located on the same lot.

District. A section of the City of Flora for which uniform regulations governing the height, area, size and use of buildings and premises within said section are established.

Drive-In Establishment. A commercial establishment where the product or service is delivered from the building to customers in parked motor vehicles.

Drive-Thru Establishment. A commercial establishment where the product or service is directly handed to customers in motor vehicles, usually through a window.

Dwelling. A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of abode for one (1) or more persons, but not including hotels, lodging or boarding houses or tourist homes.

Dwelling, Multiple. A building, or portion thereof, used and designed as a residence for three (3) or more families living independently of each other, and doing their own cooking in said building, including apartment hotels and group houses.

Dwelling, Single-Family. A detached building designed for and occupies by one (1) family exclusively.

Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex). A detached building designed for and occupied by two (2) families living independently of each other.

Dwelling Unit. A group of two (2) or more rooms, one of which is either a bathroom or kitchen, designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes.

Family. One or more persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, all of whom, or all but two of whom are related to each other by birth, adoption or marriage, as distinguished from a group occupying a residential group home or hotel as defined in this Chapter.

Filling Station. Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels, oils, or accessories, including lubrication of automobiles and replacement or installation of minor parts and accessories, but not including major repair work such as motor replacement, body and fender repair or spray painting.

Floor Area, Residence. The area of a residence exclusive of garage, carport, breeze way, porch or basement.

Frontage. All the property fronting on one side of a street between the nearest intersecting streets or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, or other similar barrier.

Garage, Private. A building for the private use of the owner or occupant of a principal building situated on the same lot of the principal building for the storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service or repair of a commercial or public nature.

Garage, Public. A building or portion thereof other than a private or storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling, storing, or parking motor-driven vehicles. The term "repairing" shall not include the dismantling or storage of wrecked or junk vehicles.

Garage, Storage. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for term storage by prearrangement of motor-driven vehicles, as distinguished from daily storage furnished transients and at which automobile fuels and oils are not sold, and motor-driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired or sold.

Grade. The average elevation of the finished ground at the exterior walls of the main building.

Home Occupation. An accessory use conducted in a residential dwelling which is a) clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling, and does not change the character of the dwelling; b) of which there is no indication from the exterior, other than a sign as permitted under Section 4 below, that the dwelling is being utilized in whole or in part for any purpose other than a dwelling; and c) the home occupation is for financial gain, and further that:

(1) the home occupation is conducted wholly within the dwelling and not within any accessory building;

(2) the is no outside storage or display of materials in connection with the home occupation;

(3) is conducted only by a member of the family residing on the premises;

(4) there are no signs other than a two square foot sign with the resident’s name and occupation, and the sign does not contain flashing, moving or intermittent illumination;

(5) the home occupation will not create more than 12 trips a day to and from the dwelling by customers of the home occupation;

(6) no mechanical equipment is used except such as is permissible for domestic, household, or office purposes.

Hotel. A building containing guest rooms where lodging is provided for more than eight (8) persons and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to boarding, lodging or rooming houses.

Industry, Light. An industrial use that is not manufacturing and does not have the characteristics of a heavy, manufacturing use.

Institution. A nonprofit establishment for public use.

Junk Yard. Any are where scrap, metal, paper, rags, rubber products, plastic or similar materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, dissembled, or handled, including auto and building salvage yards; but not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building.

Loading Space. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts on a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.

Lot. Land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main building and its accessory buildings and including as a minimum such open spaces exclusive of street areas as are required under this Title and having frontage on a public or private street or road.

Lot, Corner. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.

Lot, Depth of. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot line.

Lot, Double Frontage. An interior lot having frontages on two streets.

Lot of Record. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder or a parcel of land, the deed of which was recorded in the office of the County Recorder prior to the adoption of this Title or amendment thereof.

Lot Width. The width of a lot at the front yard line.

Manufactured Housing. Housing classed as A, B, or C, defined as follows:

1) Class A: Modular Housing. A building assembly or system of building subassemblies, designed for habitation as a dwelling unit for one or more persons, including the necessary electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating and other service systems, which is of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled by a manufacturer, on or off the building site, for installation, or assembly and installation on the building site, with a permanent condition. Class A housing must satisfy the following criteria:

a. Affixed to a permanent full-perimeter foundation consisting of materials such as concrete or concrete block which extends into the ground below the frost line, as defined in the CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code.

b. Approved and certified by the State of Illinois Department of Public Health. An approved housing unit will have a yellow seal on the electrical panel box of the home.

c. Have a minimum width of twenty-four (24) feet.

d. Have a minimum roof pitch of 1 in 4.

e. Meet the Illinois State Plumbing Code, the National Electrical Code, the One and Two Family Dwelling Code, the ASHRAE Energy Standard, and all local housing codes.Modular housing as defined herein is permitted in any residential district. No distinction is made between this type of housing and site-built housing.


2) Class B: Sectional Mobile-Home. Factory-built housing, transportable in one or more sections to the site, built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used a s dwelling unit when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, and satisfying the following criteria:


a. Affixed to a permanent, full-perimeter foundation consisting of materials such as concrete or concrete block which extends into the ground below the frost line, as defined in the International Residential Code.


b. Constructed after June 15, 1976 in compliance with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standard Act of 1974 (HUD Code). An approved housing unit will have a red metal HUD label permanently affixed to the rear of each towable unit.


c. Having a minimum roof pitch of 1 in 4.


d. Having a minimum width of twenty-four (24) feet.


e. The age of said mobile home shall not be greater than ten (10) years prior to the current model year.


Class B Sectional Mobile Homes are permitted in A-1 Districts, and may be permitted by Special Use Permit only in A-2, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-1, and C-2 Districts. (Amended 5/16/94; Ordinance #94-1204 and 2/22/05; Ordinance #05- 1902).


3) Class C: Mobile Home. Factory-built, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein.

The age of said mobile home shall not be greater than ten (10) years prior to the current model year. (Amended 02/22/05; Ordinance # 05-1902).


Class C Mobile Homes shall be permitted in approved Mobile Home Parks only.


Mobile Home Park. A tract or tracts of land developed with facilities for accommodating five (5) or more mobile homes, only by non-transient dwellers remaining continuously for more than one (1) month, whether or not a charge is made. It shall not include a sales lot in which unoccupied mobile homes or other trailers are parked for the purpose of inspection or sale, except mobile homes located in a mobile home park offered for sale by the owner or his representative.

Nonconforming Use. A building or premises that does not conform in its use or otherwise with all of the regulations applicable to the district in which such building or premises is located.

Nursery. The commercial growth of plants, usually in greenhouses, for wholesale or retail sale.

Nursing Home. A building where, for compensation, care and lodging are provided for the mentally ill, the sick, the orphaned, the elderly, the poor, the feeble, the drug addict or the alcoholic where such use is not accessory to family use.

Parking Space, Off Street. A space other than a street or alley designed for parking of a motor vehicle.

Permitted Use. Any use which is specifically authorized in a particular zoning district.

Principle Use. The primary use of land or structures as distinguished from a secondary or accessory use. A house is a principle use in a residential area; a garage or pool is an "accessory use."

Property Owner. The person in whose name the surface of the land is assessed for purposes of taxes imposed pursuant to the Revenue Act of 1939 (Chapter 120, Par. 482 et seq., Ill. Rev. Statutues) according to the records of the Supervisor of Assessments of Clay County, Illinois, as certified by said assessor.

Recreational Vehicle/Trailer. A term encompassing any type of vehicle used primarily for pleasure such as travel trailers, motor homes, boats, snowmobiles, etc., designed and used only for temporary purposes.

Residential Care Facilities. A building or buildings housing four (4) or more, but not exceeding fifteen (15) individuals, who, because of age, mental instability, or other reasons must reside in a supervised environment but who are physically capable of responding to an emergency situation without personal assistance and who have been deemed pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 3, Article IV of the Illinois Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Code, not dangerous to themselves or others. Included in such uses are convalescent facilities, group homes, homes for the aged, mentally retarded care facilities, nursing homes (ambulatory) and orphanages.

School, Private. Any school other than a public school, including schools owned and operated by a business establishment, a foundation or an institution, as well as private or parochial elementary, junior or senior high schools, or private and parochial colleges and universities.

School, Public. Any school operated by a public school district or by a city, county, state or federal governmental agency.

Setback. The distance in linear feet measured on a horizontal plane from the center line of a street and/or from a lot line to a building or structure on the lot.

Special Use. A use that has unusual operational, physical, or other characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a district. Special uses commonly must meet special standards not necessarily applicable to permitted uses in the district, and area, allowed only by permit.

Story. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, the space between such floor and the ceiling above it. A basement shall be counted as a story if its ceiling is over five feet above the average level of the finished ground surface adjoining the exterior walls of such story, or if it is used for business or dwelling purposes.

Street. That portion of the dedicated public thoroughfare both improved and unimproved which affords the principle means of access to abutting property.

Street Line. The street line is the dividing line between the street and the lot, otherwise designated as the property line.

Structural Alterations. Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.

Structure. Anything constructed or erected which is supported directly or indirectly on the earth.

Used Car Lot or Sales. The annual sale of more than four used vehicles not in conjunction with an automotive sales establishment.

Variance. A variance grants relief from specific limitations of this Title with reference to the structure to be constructed on a given lot.

Yard. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.

Yard, Front. A yard extending the full width of the lot between a main building and the front lot line.

Yard, Rear. A yard extending the full width of the lot between a main building and the rear lot line. On corner lots the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.

Yard, Side. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard and measured between the side lot line and the building.

Zoning Board of Appeals. The City of Flora Zoning Board of Appeals as established by this Title and referred to herein as the Zoning Board of Appeals, Zoning Board or Board.

Zoning Map. The map or maps incorporated into this Title, as a part thereof, designating zoning districts.

Chapter 3 Districts Established 

Index
3.1 Districts
3.2 Requirements in Each District
3.3 District map
3.4 Vacation of Public Ways
3.5 Boundaries of Districts
3.6 Airport Hazard Zoning Regulations
3.1 Districts
DISTRICTS. For the purpose of this Chapter, the City of Flora is hereby divided into the following districts:

A-1 Agricultural District

A-2 Corporate Agricultural District

R-1 Single-Family Residence District

R-2 Single-Family Residence District

R-3 Single-Family Residence District

R-4 Single-Family Residence District

MF-1 Multiple-Family Residence District

C-1 Central Commercial District

C-2 Neighborhood Commercial District

I-1 General Industrial District

I-2 Industrial Park District

3.2 Requirements in Each District
REQUIREMENTS IN EACH DISTRICT. The requirements are divided as follows and may be included in each district:

Permitted Uses

Accessory Uses

Special Uses

Parking and Loading Requirements

Area Requirements

Height Requirements

Screening

3.3 District map
DISTRICT MAP. The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown upon the maps accompanying and made a part of this Title, which maps are designated as Exhibits A and B, attached hereto and made a part hereof. Said maps and all the notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of this Title and shall have the same force and effect as if such maps and all the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all fully set forth as described herein, which maps are properly attested and are on file with the City Clerk.

3.4 Vacation of Public Ways
VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS. In the event any street, alley or other public way forming the boundary of a district is vacated, the new district boundary line shall be the former center line of said vacated public way.

3.5 Boundaries of Districts
BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various districts as shown on the district map made a part of this Title, the following rules apply:

The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, unless otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the district map are bounded approximately by streets or alleys, such streets or alleys shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.

Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines. Where the districts designated on the map are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the district unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.

In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.

Where the district boundary is a railroad line, such boundary shall be construed to be the centerline of the main track. In the case of an abandoned railroad line, the centerline of the right-of-way shall be construed as the district boundary.

3.6 Airport Hazard Zoning Regulations
AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING REGULATIONS. By order of the State of Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Aeronautics, on June 25, 1979, zoning regulations were adopted for lands surrounding the Flora Municipal Airport. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, all structures erected within any airport hazard area, as defined by State law, shall conform to the location, height, and identification requirements imposed by the Illinois Department of Aeronautics pursuant to "An Act Relating to Airport Zoning" (620 ILCS 25/37), as may be amended from time to time, and "An Act in Relation to Zoning to Eliminate Airport Hazards" (620 ILCS 30/1-30/12), as may be amended from time to time.

Chapter 4 General Zoning Regulations

Index
4.1 Compliance
4.2 Access Required
4.3 Sewers and Septic Systems
4.1 Compliance
COMPLIANCE (except as hereinafter specifically provided):

No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, except for a purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.

No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered except in conformity with the height, area, parking and loading regulations of the district in which the building is located.

The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per family required by this Title for each and every building existing at the time of passage of this Title or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as part of the yard or open space required for any other building, nor shall any lot area be reduced below the requirements of this Title for the district in which such lot is located.

Every building erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered after the effective date of this Title, shall be located on a lot as defined in this Chapter and in no case shall there be more than one main building on one lot except as specifically provided hereinafter.

4.2 Access Required
ACCESS REQUIRED. No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has permanent easement of access to, a public street or a private street that conforms to the standards set forth in the Land Subdivision Regulations of the City of Flora.

4.3 Sewers and Septic Systems
SEWERS AND SEPTIC SYSTEMS. In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where people live, work, or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all sewage in accordance with the following requirements:

Whenever the municipal or public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible and within 100 feet, all sewage shall be discharged into such system, whether or not a private sewerage system already exists or is more convenient. (Amended 12/2/96; Ordinance #96-1334)

Whenever the municipal or public sewerage system is not reasonably available, a private sewerage system shall be installed and used. All private sewerage systems shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained in conformity with the following requirements.

1. Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225-1 through 225 ILCS 225-23, as may be amended from time to time; and

2. Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Code No. 4.002, promulgated by the Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, as now or hereafter amended; and

3. Pertinent, current regulations issued by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency; and

4. Applicable codes and ordinances of this municipality, particularly the Land Subdivision Regulations.

Chapter 5 A-1 Agricultural District

Index
5.1 Permitted Uses
5.2 Accessory Uses
5.3 Special Uses
5.4 Parking Requirements
5.5 Area Requirements
5.6 Height Requirements
5.1 Permitted Uses
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT

 

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the A-1 Agricultural District.

No Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:

Agriculture and agricultural buildings, provided that livestock is housed further than 400 feet from any Residence District. This includes grain elevators and storage, and animal feed preparation and storage for use on the premises.

Farm dwellings and single-family nonfarm dwellings, including Class A and B manufactured housing.

Nurseries and greenhouses.

Cemeteries.

Public parks, playgrounds, community buildings, country clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs and similar recreational uses. Government uses of the City of Flora.

Oil and/or gas wells and crude oil and/or gas storage, provided that the operation be conducted further than 200 feet from any residence and 400 feet from any lot in a Residence District.

Public schools.

Churches and places of worship.

Home occupations.

Stands for the sale of products grown on the premises.

Bed and Breakfasts.

5.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Private garages, carports, and underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Swimming pools, including fencing, in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

Accessory agricultural buildings, including storage sheds, barns, stables, and other farm outbuildings.

5.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premise may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Nursing home facilities.

Day care/night care centers.

Residential care facilities.

Agricultural implement and machinery sales, service and repair.

Animal feed storage, preparation, grinding and mixing for commercial purposes.

Fertilizer sales, including bulk storage and mixing.

Recycling collection center.

Mobile home parks.

Commercial recreational facilities.

An existing building may be used for specialty businesses such as: hobby/craft shops; antique shops; second-hand clothing and housewares shops; radiator repairs; pet grooming services-no overnight; warehousing of vending machine supplies; small machinery repairs. Such use shall be contained totally within the building with no outside storage allowed. The provisions of the special use regulations, Section 21.4, must be met and a special use permit must be obtained prior to the use.

5.4 Parking Requirements
See Chapter 17
5.5 Area Requirements
No minimum yard areas shall be required for agricultural use except a front yard requirement of 80 feet along state and federal highways and 60 feet along state aid highways and other public roads.

5.6 Height Requirements
There shall be no restriction on the height of buildings in the Agricultural District, except when land is affected by airport hazard zoning regulations.

Chapter 6 A-2 Corporate Agricultural District

Index
6.1 Permitted Uses
6.2 Accessory Uses
6.3 Special Uses
6.4 Parking Requirements
6.5 Area Requirements
6.6 Heighth Requirements
6.1 Permitted Uses
A-2 CORPORATE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT

 

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the A-2 Corporate Agricultural District.

No Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

6.1 PERMITTED USES.

Single-family dwellings.

Two-family dwellings.

Class A Manufactured Housing.

Truck gardening and general farming involving tillage of the soil only.

Public parks, playgrounds, libraries, community centers, and similar uses, including police, fire, and postal substations.

Public schools.

Churches and places of worship.

Home occupations.

6.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Private garages, carports, storage buildings, and underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Swimming pools including fencing in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

One name sign may occupy required yards provided such sign is not more than two square feet in area; and does not contain flashing, moving, or intermittent illumination.

Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall not be located in front of the main structure.

Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building may be built in a required rear yard, but such accessory building shall not be nearer than five feet to any side or rear lot lines nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard.

No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.

Accessory buildings of other than conventional construction or more than one story or with sidewalls of more than ten (10) feet in height or not consistent with neighborhood design or use, shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to any Permit being issued. (Amended 7/21/97; Ordinance #97-1378)

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

6.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Multi-family dwellings.

Hospitals, clubs, and institutions, except institutions for criminals; provided, however, that such buildings may occupy not over 50 percent of the total area of the lot or tract.

Nursing home facilities.

Day care/night care facilities.

Residential care facilities.

Schools and colleges, other than public.

Medical or dental clinic, or medical health center.

Offices of all types.

Bed and Breakfasts.

Personal services, including barbershop, beauty parlor, cleaning and laundry establishments, mortuary, photographers, shoe repair, tailoring and dressmaking.

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and drapery, heating and cooling, painting, contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair, upholstery.

Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House.

Class B Manufactured Housing.

Mobile Home Park.

An existing building may be used for specialty businesses such as: hobby/craft shops; antique shops; second-hand clothing and housewares shops; radiator repairs; pet grooming services-no overnight; warehousing of vending machine supplies; small machinery repairs. Such use shall be contained totally within the building with no outside storage allowed. The provisions of the special use regulations, Section 21.4, must be met and a special use permit must be obtained prior to the use.

6.4 Parking Requirements
See Chapter 17
6.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--25 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--10 feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--35 feet.

Minimum lot area--7,200 square feet.

Minimum width of lot--60 feet.

Yards, generally:

There shall be no placement of household items, indoor furniture or appliances, building materials, automotive or vehicle parts, or any similar materials within a front yard or in front of the main building.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

6.6 Heighth Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS. The maximum height shall be 35 feet, or 2 ½ stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

Chapter 7: R-1 Single-Family Residence District

Index
7.1 Permitted Uses
7.2 Accessory Uses
7.3 Special Uses
7.4 Parking Requirements
7.5 Area Requirements
7.6 Height Requirements
7.1 Permitted Uses
The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the R-1 Single-Family Residence District.

No Class B or Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class B Sectional Mobile Homes are permitted in A-1 Districts, and may be permitted by Special Use Permit only in A-2, R-2, R-3, R-4, and MF-1 Districts. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

7.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:

Single-family dwellings.

Class A Manufactured Housing.

Truck gardening and general farming involving tillage of the soil only.

Publicly-owned and operated park, playground, community building, library, public utility facilities; police, fire and postal substations.

Public schools.

Churches and places of worship.

Home occupations.

7.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Private garages, carports, storage buildings, and underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Swimming pools including fencing in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

One name sign may occupy required yards provided such sign is not more than two square feet in area; and does not contain flashing, moving, or intermittent illumination.

Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall not be located in front of the main structure.

Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building may be built in a required rear yard, but such accessory building shall not be nearer than five feet to any side or rear lot lines nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard.

No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.

Accessory buildings of other than conventional construction or more than one story or with sidewalls of more than ten (10) feet in height or not consistent with neighborhood design or use, shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to any Permit being issued. (Amended 7/21/97; Ordinance #97-1378)

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of stormwater drainage.

7.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Hospitals, clubs, and institutions, except institutions for criminals; provided, however, that such buildings may not occupy over 50 percent of the total area of the lot or tract.

Nursing home facilities.

Day care/night care centers.

Residential care facilities.

Schools and colleges, other than public.

Medical or dental clinic, or medical health center.

Offices of all types.

Bed and Breakfasts.

7.4 Parking Requirements
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

7.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--35 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--15 feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--50 feet.

Minimum lot area--21,780 square feet (1/2 acre).

Minimum width of lot--100 feet.

Yards, generally:

There shall be no placement of household items, indoor furniture or appliances, building materials, automotive or vehicle parts, or any similar materials within a front yard or in front of the main building.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

7.6 Height Requirements
The maximum height shall be 35 feet, or 2 ½ stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

Chapter 8: R-2 Single-Family Residence District

Index
8.1 Permitted Uses
8.2 Accessory Uses
8.3 Special Uses
8.4 Parking Requirements
8.5 Area Requirements
8.6 Height Requirements
8.1 Permitted Uses
R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the R-2 Single-Family Residence District.

No Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

8.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:

Single-family dwellings.

Class A Manufactured Housing.

Truck gardening and general farming involving tillage of the soil only.

Publicly-owned and operated park, playground, community building, library, public utility facilities; police, fire and postal substations.

Public schools.

Churches and places of worship.

Home occupations.

8.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Private garages, carports, storage buildings, and underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Swimming pools, including fencing in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

One name sign may occupy required yards provided such sign is not more than two square feet in area; and does not contain flashing, moving or intermittent illumination.

Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall not be located in front of the main structure.

Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building main may be built in a required rear yard, but such accessory building shall not be nearer than five feet to any side or rear lot lines nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard.

No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.

Accessory buildings of other than conventional construction or more than one story or with sidewalls of more than ten (10) feet in height or not consistent with neighborhood design or use, shall be reveiwed and approved by the Planning Commision prior to any Permit being issued. (Amended 7/21/97; Ordinance #97-1378)

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of stormwater drainage.

8.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Hospitals, clubs, and institutions, except institutions for criminals; provided, however, that such buildings may occupy not over 50 percent of the total area of the lot or tract.

Nursing home facilities.

Day care/night care centers.

Residential care facilities.

Schools and colleges, other than public.

Two family dwellings. (Amended 12/2/96; Ordinance #96-1334)

Class B Manufactured Housing.

Medical or dental clinic, or medical health center.

Offices of all types.

Personal services, including barbershop, beauty parlor, cleaning and laundry establishments, mortuary, photographers, shoe repair, tailoring and dressmaking.

Bed and Breakfasts.

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and drapery, heating and cooling, painting, contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair, upholstery.

Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House.

Mobile Home Parks.

Two-family conversions (See Chapter 19, Section 19.3).

An existing building may be used for specialty businesses such as: hobby/craft shops; antique shops; second-hand clothing and housewares shops; radiator repairs; pet grooming services-no overnight; warehousing of vending machine supplies; small machinery repairs. Such use shall be contained totally within the building with no outside storage allowed. The provisions of the special use regulations, Section 21.4, must be met and a special use permit must be obtained prior to the use.

8.4 Parking Requirements
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

8.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--25 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--10 feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--35 feet.

Minimum lot area--10,500 square feet.

Minimum width of lot--75 feet.

Yards, generally:

There shall be no placement of household items, indoor furniture or appliances, building materials, automotive or vehicle parts, or any similar materials within a front yard or in front of the main building.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

8.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.

The maximum height shall be 35 feet, or 2 ½ stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

Chapter 9: R-3 Single-Family Residence District

Index
9.1 Permitted Uses
9.2 Accessory Uses
9.3 Special Uses
9.4 Parking Requirements
9.5 Area Requirements
9.6 Height Requirements
9.1 Permitted Uses
R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the R-3 Single-Family Residence District.

No Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

9.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:

Single-family dwellings.

Class A Manufactured Housing.

Truck gardening and general farming involving tillage of the soils only.

Publicly-owned and operated park, playground, community building, library, public utility facilities; police, fire and postal substations.

Public schools.

Churches and places of worship.

Home occupations.

9.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Private garages, carports, storage buildings, and underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Swimming pools, including fencing, in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

One name sign may occupy required yards provided such sign is not more than two square feet in area; and does not contain flashing, moving or intermittent illumination.

Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall not be located in front of the main structure.

Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building may be built in a required rear yard, but such accessory building shall not be nearer than five (5) feet to any side or rear lot lines nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard.

No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.

Accessory buildings of other than conventional construction or more than one story or with sidewalls of more than ten (10) feet in height or not consistent with neighborhood design or use, shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to any Permit being issued. (Amended 7/21/97; Ordinance #97-1378)

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

9.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Hospitals, clubs, and institutions, except institutions for criminals; provided, however, that such buildings may occupy not over 50 percent of the total area of the lot or tract.

Nursing home facilities.

Day care/night care centers.

Residential care facilities.

Schools and colleges, other than public.

Two family dwellings. (Amended 12/2/96; Ordinance #96-1334)

Class B Manufactured Housing.

Medical or dental clinic, or medical health center.

Offices of all types.

Personal services, including barbershop, beauty parlor, cleaning and laundry establishments, mortuary, photographers, shoe repair, tailoring and dressmaking.

Bed and Breakfasts.

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and drapery, heating and cooling, painting, contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair, upholstery.

Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House.

Mobile Home Parks.

Two-family conversions (See Chapter 19, Section 19.3).

An existing building may be used for specialty businesses such as: hobby/craft shops; antique shops; second-hand clothing and housewares shops; radiator repairs; pet grooming services-no overnight; warehousing of vending machine supplies; small machinery repairs. Such use shall be contained totally within the building with no outside storage allowed. The provisions of the special use regulations, Section 21.4, must be met and a special use permit must be obtained prior to the use.

9.4 Parking Requirements
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

9.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--20 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--8 feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--30 feet.

Minimum lot area--7,200 square feet.

Minimum width of lot--60 feet.

Yards, generally:

There shall be no placement of household items, indoor furniture or appliances, building materials, automotive or vehicle parts, or any similar materials within a front yard or in front of the main building.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

9.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS

The maximum height shall be 35 feet, or 2 ½ stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

Chapter 10: R-4 Single-Family Residence District

Index
10.1 Permitted Uses
10.2 Accessory Uses
10.3 Special Uses
10.4 Parking Requirements
10.5 Area Requirements
10.6 Height Requirements
10.1 Permitted Uses
R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT

 

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the R-4 Single-Family Residence District.

No Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

10.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:

Single-family dwelling.

Class A Manufactured Housing.

Truck gardening and general farming involving tillage of the soil only.

Publicly-owned and operated park, playground, community building, library, public utility facilities; police, fire and postal substations.

Public schools.

Churches and places of worship.

Home occupations.

10.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Private garages, carports, storage buildings, and underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Swimming pools, including fencing, in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

One name sign may occupy required yards provided such sign is not more than two square feet in area; and does not contain flashing, moving or intermittent illumination.

Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall not be located in front of the main structure.

Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building may be built in a required rear yard, but such accessory building shall not be nearer than five feet to any side or rear lot lines nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard.

No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.

Accessory buildings of other than conventional construction or more than one story or with sidewalls of more than ten (10) feet in height or not consistent with neighborhood design or use, shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to any Permit being issued. (Amended 7/21/97; Ordinance #97-1378)

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

10.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Hospitals, clubs, and institutions, except institutions for criminals; provided, however, that such buildings may occupy not over 50 percent of the total area of the lot or tract.

Nursing home facilities.

Day care/night care facilities.

Residential care facilities.

Schools and colleges, other than public.

Two family dwellings. (Amended 12/2/96; Ordinance #96-1334)

Class B Manufactured Housing.

Medical or dental clinic, or medical health center.

Offices of all types.

Personal services, including barbershop, beauty parlor, cleaning and laundry establishments, mortuary, photographers, shoe repair, tailoring and dressmaking.

Bed and Breakfasts.

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and drapery, heating and cooling, painting, contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair, upholstery.

Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House.

Mobile Home Parks.

Two-family conversions (See Chapter 19, Section 19.3)

An existing building may be used for specialty businesses such as: hobby/craft shops; antique shops; second-hand clothing and house- wares shops; radiator repairs; pet grooming services-no overnight; warehousing of vending machine supplies; small machinery repairs. Such use shall be contained totally within the building with no outside storage allowed. The provisions of the special use regulations, Section 21.4, must be met and a special use permit must be obtained prior to the use.

10.4 Parking Requirements
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

10.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--20 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--8 feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--25 feet.

Minimum lot area - 5,000 square feet.

Minimum width of lot--50 feet.

Yards, generally:

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

10.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.

The maximum height shall be 35 feet, or 2 ½ stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

Chapter 11: MF-1 Multiple-Family Residence District

Index
11.1 Permitted Uses
11.2 Accessory Uses
11.3 Special Uses
11.4 Parking Requirements
11.5 Area Requirements
11.6 Height Requirements
11.1 Permitted Uses
MF-1 MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT

 

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the MF-1 Multiple-Family Residence District.

No Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

11.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:

Single-family dwellings.

Class A Manufactured Housing.

Two-family dwellings.

Multiple-family dwellings.

Truck gardening and general farming involving tillage of the soil only.

Publicly-owned and operated park, playground, community building, library, public utility facilities; police, fire and postal substations.

Public schools.

Churches and places of worship.

Home occupations.

11.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Private garages, carports, garages for multiple dwellings, storage buildings, and underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Swimming pools, including fencing, in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

One name sign may occupy required yards provided such sign is not more than two square feet in area; and does not contain flashing, moving or intermittent illumination.

Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall not be located in front of the main structure.

Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building may be built in a required rear yard, but such accessory building shall not be nearer than five feet to any side or rear lot lines nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than 30 percent of the required rear yard.

No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.

Accessory buildings of other than conventional construction or more than one story or with sidewalls of more than ten (10) feet in height or not consistent with neighborhood design or use, shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to any Permit being issued. (Amended 7/21/97; Ordinance #97-1378)

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

11.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Hospitals, clubs, and institutions, except institutions for criminals; provided, however, that such building may occupy not over 50 percent of the total area of the lot or tract.

Nursing home facilities.

Day care/night care facilities.

Residential care facilities.

Schools and colleges, other than public.

Class B Manufactured Housing.

Medical or dental clinic, or medical health center.

Offices of all types.

Personal services, including barbershop, beauty parlor, cleaning and laundry establishments, mortuary, photographers, shoe repair, tailoring and dressmaking.

Bed and Breakfasts.

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and drapery, heating and cooling, painting, contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair, upholstery.

Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House.

Mobile Home Parks.

Two-Family and Multiple-Family Conversions (See Chapter 19, Section 19.3).

An existing building may be used for specialty businesses such as: hobby/craft shops; antique shops; second-hand clothing and house- wares shops; radiator repairs; pet grooming services-no overnight; warehousing of vending machine supplies; small machinery repairs. Such use shall be contained totally within the building with no outside storage allowed. The provisions of the special use regulations, Section 21.4, must be met and a special use permit must be obtained prior to the use.

11.4 Parking Requirements
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

11.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--25 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--5 feet, 2 ½ stories; 12 feet, 3 stories.

Minimum depth of rear yard--30 feet

Minimum lot area--5,000 square feet.

Yards, generally:

There shall be no placement of household items, indoor furniture or appliances, building materials, automotive or vehicle parts, or any similar materials within a front yard or in front of the main building.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

11.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.

The maximum height shall be 45 feet, or 3 stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

Chapter 12: Mobile Home Park

Index
12.1 Permitted Uses
12.2 Accessory Uses
12.3 Parking Requirements
12.4 Area Requirements
12.5 Landscape Buffer
12.6 Other Requirements
12.1 Permitted Uses
MOBILE HOME PARK

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations for Mobile Home Parks. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for well-designed mobile home parks in areas where public utilities are accessible. All Mobile Home Parks shall consist of a minimum of three acres which contain sites for five or more mobile homes.

12.1 PERMITTED USES. A premises permitted as a Mobile Home Park shall be used for the operation of a licensed mobile home park. Permitted uses are:

Mobile homes for dwelling purposes.

Home occupations.

12.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Management headquarters; recreational uses; community building for use by mobile home park residents, and which would include toilets, showers, laundry facilities; other uses and structures customarily incidental to the operation of a mobile home park. Also, includes underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Public swimming pool, including fencing, in accordance with Chapter 19, Section 19.5.

One name sign may occupy required yards provided such sign is not more than two square feet in area and does not contain flashing, moving or intermittent illumination.

Storage sheds placed in a rear yard. Only one shed shall be placed on any one lot and said shed shall not exceed 144 square feet.

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material requires a permit. At no time shall any grad-ing be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

12.3 Parking Requirements
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.

Off-Street Parking Inside Park - A maximum of two parking spaces for each mobile home lot. Parking spaces shall be designed and placed in the front area of the lot, unless otherwise approved during plan review. No vehicles shall be parked in the rear or side yard.

Community Building - One parking space for every 300 square feet of floor area.

On-Street Parking Inside Park

Street Width-----Allowed Parking and Posting of No Parking Signs

24 feet-----Posted No Parking-Both Sides

30 feet-----Posted No Parking-One Side

36 feet-----Parking Allowed-Both Sides

All access drives and parking spaces shall be paved or otherwise surfaced with an all-weather, dust-proof material and graded so as to drain off all surface water to storm sewer inlets.

12.4 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.


Minimum Lot Requirements	Less Than 61 Feet in Length	Over 61 Feet in Length
Lot Width	36 feet	36 feet
Lot Depth	100 feet	120 feet
Front Yard	20 feet	20 feet
Rear Yard	20 feet	20 feet
Side Yards	5 feet	5 feet
12.5 Landscape Buffer
LANDSCAPE BUFFER.

A ten foot landscape buffer shall be provided for the side and rear yards of the Park. In lieu of the landscaped buffer, a five foot high wall or opaque wooden fence may be erected adjacent to the property lines of the park.

12.6 Other Requirements
OTHER REQUIREMENTS.

Layout and development of a Mobile Home Park shall comply with the following Sections of the City of Flora, Illinois Land Subdivision Regulations, 1990, as may be amended:

Section 3.0 Preliminary Plat

Section 4.0 Final Plat

Section 5.0 Minimum Design Standards

Section 6.0 Improvements

Requirements not herein addressed in this Title shall conform to the Mobile Home Parks Act, 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq., as amended from time to time.

Chapter 13: C-1 Central Commercial District

Index
13.1 Permitted Uses
13.2 Accessory Uses
13.3 Special Uses
13.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
13.5 Area Requirements
13.6 Height Requirements
13.7 Screening
13.1 Permitted Uses
C-1 CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the C-1 Central Commercial District.

No Class B or Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District.

13.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used for the following purposes:

Retail Stores of all types.

Personal services, including barbershop, beauty parlor, cleaning and laundry establishment, mortuary, photographer, shoe repair, tailoring and dressmaking.

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and draperies, electrical, heating and cooling, painting, contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair and upholstery.

Financial institutions, including banks, savings and loans, stockbrokers, and title companies.

Offices, including business, dental, general, laboratory, testing, law, medical, chiropractor, optometrist, radio and television, and research.

Food and beverage services, including bars, taverns, catering establishments, hotels, motels, ice cream parlors, and restaurants, but not including drive-ins or drive-thru establishments.

Recreational uses, including archery, billiard parlor, bowling alley, dancing, racquetball, rollerskating rink, tennis facility, theater, video games, and weightlifting.

Hotels and motels, and establishments offering accommodations to transient overnight guests.

Schools and academies, including business, commercial, computer, dancing, daycare centers, martial arts, music, trade and vocational.

Automotive services, including new car and vehicle dealerships and auto parts stores.

Lumber store or lumber yard, for the sale of lumber products and building materials.

Dwelling, living and sleeping quarters within commercial establishments, when constructed above the ground floor level of and building.

Parking lots with less than ten spaces.

Publicly-owned and operated building or facility of any kind.

Churches or places of worship.

13.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Accessory building and uses customarily incident to the above uses, and located on the same lot. Also includes underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508).

Where a lot is used for a commercial pupose, more than one main building of the business may be located upon the lot but only when such buildings conform to all open space requirements of the lot for the district in which the lot is located.

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade or property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material or changes the existing elevation by more than two feet requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

13.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Drive-in or drive-thru restaurants, and other drive-in or drive-thru establishments.

Auto repair garages, body shops, used motor vehicle sales, filling stations, public garages, and car washes.

Private clubs or lodges.

Parking lots of ten (10) or more spaces. (Amended 12/2/96; Ordinance #96-1334)

Warehousing (Amended 01/22/07; Ordinance #07-2037)

Self Storage (Amended 01/22/07; Ordinance #70-2037)

Single-family and two-family dwellings.

Class A Manufactured Housing.

13.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
PARKING/LOADING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

13.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--none.

Minimum width of side yard--No side yards are required for commercial buildings except on the side of a lot abutting a residential district, in which case there shall be a side yard of not less than five feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--No rear yards are required for commercial buildings except on the rear of a lot abutting a residential district, in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.

Lot controls for residential uses, permitted as Special Uses, shall be the same as the R-4 Single-Family Residence District.

Filling station pumps and pump islands may occupy the required yards; provided, however, that they are not less than 15 feet from street lines, and not less than 50 feet from the boundary of any residential district.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

13.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.

The maximum height shall be 45 feet or three stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

13.7 Screening
SCREENING.

Activities Enclosed. All outside storage of materials, products, or merchandise shall be enclosed by walls or solid fence at least six (6) feet high.

Buffer strips. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any residential district, screening (a wall, fence, or closely planted shrubbery) at least six (6) feet high and of sufficient density to completely block the view from the adjacent residential property shall be installed.

Refuse Containers. All refuse generated by any establishment located within this district shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in a visually-screened area.

Chapter 14: C-2 Neighborhood Commercial District

Index
14.1 Permitted Uses
14.2 Accessory Uses
14.3 Special Uses
14.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
14.5 Area Requirements
14.6 Height Requirements
14.7 Screening
14.1 Permitted Uses
The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the C-2 Neighborhood Commercial District.

No Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District. Class C Mobile Homes are permitted only in approved Mobile Home Parks.

14.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used for the following purposes:

Retail Stores of all types.

Personal services, including barbershop, beauty parlor, cleaning and laundry establishment, mortuary, photographer, shoe repair, tailoring and dressmaking. (Amended 8/21/95; Ordinance #95-1257).

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and draperies, electrical, heating and cooling, painting, contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair, and upholstery.

Financial institutions, including banks, savings and loans, stockbrokers, and title companies.

Offices, including business, dental, general, laboratory, testing, law, medical, chiropractor, optometrist, radio and television, and research.

Food and beverage services, including bars, taverns, catering establishments, hotels, motels, ice cream parlors, and restaurants, including drive-ins or drive-thru establishments.

Recreational uses, including archery, billiard parlor, bowling alley, dancing, racquetball, rollerskating rink, tennis facility, theater, video games, and weightlifting.

Hotels and motels, offering accommodations to transient overnight guests.

Automotive services, including new car and vehicle dealerships and auto parts stores.

Nursing home and residential care facilities. (Amended 10/6/03; Ordinance #03-1811).

Auto garages, body shops, used motor vehicle sales, filling stations, public garages, and car washes. (Amended 2/1/99; Ordinance #99-1480)

Farm implement services, including new and used farm implement dealerships and repair.

Dwelling, single-family, two-family, multiple-family dwellings, and Class A Manufactured Housing, or a residence unit above the ground floor level of any commercial building.

Parking lots with less than ten spaces.

Public parks.

Churches or places of worship.

14.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the above uses, including underground storm shelters, and located on the same lot. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Where a lot is used for a commercial purpose, more than one main building of the business may be located upon the lot but only when such buildings conform to all open space requirements of the lot for the district in which the lot is located.

Accessory buildings of other than conventional construction or more than one story or with sidewalls of more than ten (10) feet

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade of property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 yards of material or changes the existing elevation by more than two feet requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

14.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Veterinarian Office.

Parking lots of ten (10) or more spaces.(Amended 12/2/96; Ordinance #96-1334)

Recycling Collection Center.

Class B Manufactured Housing. (Amended 5/16/94; Ordinance #94-1204)

Warehousing (Amended 01/22/07; Ordinance #07-2038)

Self Storage (Amended 01/22/07; Ordinance #07-2038)

14.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
PARKING/LOADING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17

14.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--25 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--No side yards are required for commercial buildings except on the side of a lot abutting a residential district there shall be a side yard setback of not less than 5 feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--No rear yards are required for commercial buildings except on the rear of a lot abutting a dwelling district, in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.

Lot controls for residential uses, permitted as Special Uses, shall be the same as the R-4 Single-Family Residence District Filling station pumps and pump islands may occupy the required yards; provided, however, that they are not less than 15 feet from street lines, and not less than 50 feet from the boundary of any residential district.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

14.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.

The maximum height shall be 45 feet or 3 stories. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

14.7 Screening
SCREENING.

Activities Enclosed. All outside storage of materials, products, or merchandise shall be enclosed by walls or solid fence at least six (6) feet high.

Buffer Strips. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting and residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence, or closely planted shrubbery) at least six (6) feet high and of sufficient density to completely block the view from the adjacent residential property shall be installed.

Refuse Containers. All refuse generated by any establishment located within this district shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in a visually-screened area.

Chapter 15: I-1 General Industrial District

Index
15.1 Permitted Uses
15.2 Accessory Uses
15.3 Special Uses
15.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
15.5 Area Requirements
15.6 Height Requirements
15.7 Screening
15.1 Permitted Uses
I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the I-1 General Industrial District.

No Class B or Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District.

15.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used for the following purposes:

Light industrial uses including: bottling works; building material storage yard; carting, express, hauling or storage yard; milk distributing station; public utility substation and facilities; storage warehouse; wholesale warehouse or business; and similar uses.

Manufacturing uses where the process of manufacturing or treatment of materials conforms to the following performance standards:

A. Smoke: No smoke is emitted of a density greater than No. 1 according to the Ringelmann’s Scale, except that smoke of a density not in excess of No. 2 of Ringelmann’s Scale shall be permitted for a period not in excess of six (6) minutes in any hour.

B. Fly Ash: No particles from any flue or smokestack shall exceed two tenths (0.2) grains per cubic foot of the flue gas at a stack temperature of five hundred degrees (500 ) Fahrenheit.

C. Dust: No dust of any kind produced by the industrial operations shall be permitted to escape beyond the confines of the building in which it is produced.

D. Odor: No noxious odor of any kind shall be permitted to extend beyond the lot lines.

E. Gases and Fumes: No gases or fumes, toxic to persons or injurious to property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which they occur.

F. Glare: No glare shall be seen from any street or any residential area.

G. Vibration: No intense earth shaking vibrations shall be created or maintained by any industry beyond the boundary lines of the tract on which it is located.

H. Noise and Sound: A maximum of seventy (70) decibels at the property line is permitted. Noise is required to be muffled so as not to become objectionable due to intermittence, beat, frequency or shrillness. Sound may equal but not exceed street traffic noise in the vicinity during a normal shift work period.

Commercial uses including the following:

Retail sales, including appliance, bakery, book store, card and gift shop, carpeting, clothing, department store, drug store, fabrics, feed store, food store, furniture store, garden shop, hardware store, hobby shop, jewelry store, liquor store, newsstand, pet shop, radio and T.V. store, and sporting goods.

Household services, including appliance repair, bicycle repair, carpeting and draperies, electrical, heating and cooling, painting contractor, plumbing, radio and television repair, and upholstery.

Food and beverage services, including bars, taverns, catering establishments, hotels motels, ice cream parlors, and restaurants, but not including drive-ins or drive-thurs.

Recreational uses, including archery, billiard parlor, bowling alley, dancing, racquetball, rollerskating rink, tennis facility, theater, video games, and weightlifting.

Hotels and motels, offering accommodations to transient overnight guests.

Automotive services, including new car and vehicle dealerships and auto parts stores.

Farm implement services, including new and used farm implement dealerships and repair.

Manufactured housing sales.

Dwellings for resident watchmen and caretakers employed on the premises.

Parking lots with less than 10 spaces.

Publicly-owned building or facility of any kind.

 

15.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include.

Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the above uses. Also, includes underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Where a lot is used for a commercial or industrial purpose, more than one main building of the business or industry may be located upon the lot but only when such buildings conform to all open space requirements around the lot for the district in which the lot is located.

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade or property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material or changes the existing elevation by more than two feet requires a permit. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

15.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Drive-in or drive-thru restaurants, and other drive-in or drive-thru establishments.

Auto repair garages, body shops, used motor vehicle sales, filling stations, public garages, and car washes.

Parking lots of ten (10) or more spaces. (Amended 12/2/96; Ordinance #96-1334).

15.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
PARKING/LOADING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

15.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum lot width--none.

Minimum depth of front yard--30 feet.

Minimum width of side yard--no side yards are required except on the side of a lot abutting a residential district, in which case there shall be a side yard of not less than twenty-five feet for permitted industrial and manufacturing uses and five feet for all other uses.

Minimum depth of rear yard--no rear yards are required except on the rear of a lot abutting a residential district, in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.

Minimum lot area--32,670 square feet.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

15.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.

The maximum height shall be 60 feet or three stories, except where restricted by airport clear zone requirements. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

15.7 Screening
SCREENING.

Activities Enclosed. All production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings. Storage areas may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls or fences, including gates, at least eight (8) feet high, completely screening the storage area.

Refuse Containers. All refuse generated by facilities located within this District shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in visually-screened areas.

Chapter 16: I-2 Industrial Park District

Index
16.1 Permitted Uses
16.2 Accessory Uses
16.3 Special Uses
16.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
16.5 Area Requirements
16.6 Height Requirements
16.7 Screening
16.1 Permitted Uses
I-2 INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT

The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the I-2 Industrial Park District.

No Class B or Class C Mobile Homes are permitted in this District.

16.1 PERMITTED USES. A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:

Industrial uses of all types which require both buildings and open areas for manufacturing, fabrication, processing, assembling, extraction, heavy repairing, dismantling, storage, and raw materials, and provided the use conforms to the following performance standards:

A. Smoke: No smoke is emitted of a density greater than No. 1 according to the Ringelmann’s Scale, except that smoke of a density not in excess of No. 2 of Ringelmann’s Scale shall be permitted for a period not in excess of six (6) minutes in any hour.

B. Fly Ash: No particles from any flue or smokestack shall exceed two tenths (0.2) grains per cubic foot of the flue gas at a stack temperature of five hundred degrees (500 ) Fahrenheit.

C. Dust: No dust of any kind produced by the industrial operations shall be permitted to escape beyond the confines of the building in which it is produced.

D. Odor: No noxious odor of any kind shall be permitted to extend beyond the lot lines.

E. Gases and Fumes: No gases or fumes, toxic to persons or injurious to property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which they occur.

F. Glare: No glare shall be seen from any street or any residential area.

G. Vibration: No intense earth shaking vibrations shall be created or maintained by any industry beyond the boundary lines of the tract on which it is located.

H. Noise and Sound: A maximum of seventy (70) decibels at the property line is permitted. Noise is required to be muffled so as not to become objectionable due to intermittence, beat, frequency frequency or shrillness. Sound may equal but not exceed street traffic noise in the vicinity during a normal shift work period.

Warehousing.

Wholesale warehouse or business.

Airports and associated uses.

Farming, including tillage of the soil only.

Dwellings for resident watchmen and caretakers employed on the premises.

Governmental building or facility of any kind.

Public utilities and public service uses or structures.

Recreational trail.

16.2 Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY USES. Uses subordinate to that of the main building may include:

Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the above uses. Also, includes underground storm shelters. (Amended 6/21/99; Ordinance #99-1508)

Where a lot is used for an industrial purpose, more than one main building of the industry may be located upon the lot, but only when such buildings conform to all open space requirements around the lot for the district in which the lot is located.

Grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade or property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material or changes the existing elevation by more than two feet requires a permits. At no time shall any grading be detrimental to surrounding property in appearance or in the diversion of storm water drainage.

16.3 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A building or premises may be used for the following purposes if the provisions of the special use regulations, Chapter 21, Section 21.4, are met and a special use permit is obtained:

Day Care/Night Care Center.

16.4 Parking/Loading Requirements
PARKING/LOADING REQUIREMENTS.

See Chapter 17.

16.5 Area Requirements
AREA REQUIREMENTS.

Minimum depth of front yard--4o feet.

Minimum width of side yard--25 feet.

Minimum depth of rear yard--25 feet.

Minimum lot area--3 acres.

Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets, there shall be a front yard on each street. No accessory building or open storage shall project beyond the front yard line on either street.

Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets.

No yard is required for those portions of lots adjacent to railroad sidings.

Supplemental area requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.2.

16.6 Height Requirements
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.

The maximum height shall be 60 feet or three stories, except where restricted by airport clear zone requirements. Supplemental height requirements are provided in Chapter 19, Section 19.1.

16.7 Screening
SCREENING.

Activities Enclosed. All production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings. Storage areas may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls or fences (whether solid or chain-link), including gates, at least eight (8) feet high.

Buffer Strips. Wherever any industrial use located in this district abuts a residential district, a 20 foot view and noise control buffer strip shall be installed. Such buffer strip shall consist of densely planted shrubbery that is at least five (5) feet high when planted and that can be expected to reach a height of ten (10) feet when full grown.

Refuse Containers. All refuse generated by facilities located within this District shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in visually-screened areas.

Chapter 17: Parking and Loading Areas

Index
17.1 General Requirements and Regulations
17.2 Parking Space Requirements
17.3 Location of Required Parking Facilities
17.4 Dimensions of Parking and Access Areas
17.5 Collective Facilities for Seperate Uses
17.6 Circulation Requirements
17.7 Size and Design Standards
17.8 Loading Requirements
17.9 Design Standards
17.10 Exemptions
17.1 General Requirements and Regulations
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS. In any district where required, space for the parking, storage and loading of vehicles shall be subject to the following regulations:

A. Plot Plans: Plot plans showing the proposed development and use of the property, shall be submitted to the Administrative Official who may disapprove such plans if he finds that they are inconsistent with the parking requirements, as provided for in this Chapter.

B. Parking Area Limitations: A required parking area shall be used exclusively for vehicle parking in conjunction with a permitted land use and shall not be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.

C. Parking Area Dimensions: The plot plan submitted shall show a detailed functional parking arrangement, which indicates the dimensions of spaces and adequate access thereto.

D. Combined Parking Area: Parking facilities may be provided collectively for two (2) or more buildings or uses; provided, that the total area of such facilities shall not be less than the combined requirements for the individual uses.

E. Ownership of Parking Area: Property on which required parking is established shall be under the same ownership as the use it is intended to serve. Any joint ownership resulting from the establishment of collective parking facilities, as provided in subsection D above, will be construed as complying with this provision.

F. Whenever a building or use constructed or established after the effective date of this Title or amendment of this Title is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a need for an increase in the number of existing parking spaces, such spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change.

G. No access way to any parking area shall be located within 30 feet of any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets. At intersections where traffic control devices are installed, the Administrator may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent hazards.

17.2 Parking Space Requirements
PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS. The parking spaces required for each type of use shall be as follows:


RESIDENTIAL USES	PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Bed and Breakfast	
2 Parking spaces for the operator, 1 parking space for each guest room and 1 parking space for each employee

Dwelling, 1 and 2 family	
2 parking spaces per dwelling unit

Dwelling multi family	
1 ½ parking spaces per single bedroom dwelling unit.

2 parking spaces per dwelling unit with

2 or more bedrooms.

Hotel, Motel, Boarding and rooming houses	1 parking space for each sleeping room or suite. In addition to the foregoing, one additional space shall be provided for each regular employee
Mobile home park

2 parking spaces per mobile home space.

Day care/Night care centers and day care homes	
1 parking space for each 6 clients or fraction thereof, plus 1 for every employee.

Nursing homes/Residential care facilities	
1 parking space for each 5 beds

 


COMMERCIAL USES	PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Bowling Alleys	
5 spaces for each alley.

Business, general	
1 space for each 200 square feet of building floor area devoted to sales or display plus 1 space for each 2 employees.

Medical and dental clinics

1 parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area.

Mortuaries or funeral home

1 parking space for each 50 square feet of floor space in slumber rooms, parlors or individual funeral service rooms.

Office professional; banks and studios

3 parking spaces, plus 1 additional space for each 400 square feet of floor area over 1,000

Other commercial uses, other than specifically designated herein

1 parking space for each 300 square feet of open area devoted to sales or display, plus 1 space for each 2 employees.

Restaurants, cafes, night clubs, bars and other similar places dispensing food or refreshments, including drive-thru establishments

1 parking space for each 4 seats, plus 1 parking space for each 2 employees on the largest shift.

Recreational places

1 parking space for each 4 fixed seats plus 1 parking space for every 35 square feet where there are no fixed seats; 5 parking spaces for each alley in a bowling alley

 

INDUSTRIAL USES	PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Industrial uses of all types

1 parking space for each 2 employees on the largest shift.

 

OTHER USES	PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Churches

1 parking space for each 5 seats in the main auditorium

Hospitals

1 ½ parking spaces per patient bed.

Public buildings

1 parking space for each 300 square feet of floor area.

Club or lodge

1 parking space for every 10 members

School and Education Institutions	
1 parking space for each 5 seats in the institutions main auditorium or 3 spaces for each classroom, whichever is greater

17.3 Location of Required Parking Facilities
LOCATION OF REQUIRED PARKING FACILITIES. Parking shall be located on the same lot or premises of the principal structure, provided, however, that no off-street facilities for a business or industrial use shall be located in a residential district.

Where an increase in the number of spaces is required by a change or enlargement of use or where such spaces are provided collectively by two or more establishments, the required spaces may be located within 300 feet from the nonresidential building served. [See Section 17.5.]

The required parking spaces for residences shall be located in the side, rear or front yard on driveways only. No driveway access located in a front yard shall exceed 20 feet in width, and a circle drive shall have a minimum radius of 40 feet.

No vehicle or recreational trailer in excess of 35 feet shall be parked in residential districts. Recreational trailers may be parked in a rear yard, provided, however, that they are not used as living quarters while so parked.

Inoperable or unlicensed vehicles, including those used for racing, derby, or demolition derby purposes, shall be parked within an enclosed structure or within an enclosed rear yard. The total number of vehicles on a premises, including recreational vehicles and trailers, shall not exceed four for any one residential unit.

17.4 Dimensions of Parking and Access Areas
DIMENSIONS OF PARKING AND ACCESS AREAS.

A. Minimum size parking space: nine feet by eighteen feet (9'x18').

B. Minimum aisle widths:

30 degree parking

12 feet
45 degree parking

15 feet
60 degree parking

18 feet
90 degree parking

24 feet
 

C. Driveway entrances and exits:

Driveways used to serve no more than one dwelling unit, nine feet (9').

Driveways used to serve two (2) or more dwelling units, eighteen feet (18').

Single lane entrance and exit driveways for all uses except residential, twelve feet (12').

Combined entrance and exit driveways for all uses except residential, twenty-four feet (24').

17.5 Collective Facilities for Seperate Uses
COLLECTIVE FACILITIES FOR SEPARATE USES. Off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so furnished is not less than the sum of the spaces required for all such separate uses, and provided that all regulations covering the location of accessory parking spaces in relation to the use served are observed. A written agreement covering such collective uses shall be filed with the Administrative Official.

17.6 Circulation Requirements
CIRCULATION REQUIREMENTS. Circulation within the parking lot shall be such that a car entering the parking lot need not enter the street to reach another aisle, and a car need not enter a public street backwards. If circulation is not possible otherwise, a twenty-four foot (24') turn-around will suffice. Directional signs are required in lots using more than one aisle.

17.7 Size and Design Standards
SIZE AND DESIGN STANDARDS. Any area developed for the parking of vehicles (parking lots) shall be developed and maintained as hereinafter set forth. For the purpose of this Chapter, one hundred sixty-two (162) square feet (9'x18') of lot or floor area, which has a means of egress and ingress from an alley or street, shall be deemed parking space for one vehicle. Such parking spaces and access driveways, required in all districts when used in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, shall be paved or otherwise surfaced with an all-weather, dust-proof material. That part of the driveway connecting from the curb line to the property line shall be paved with concrete or asphaltic materials. Parking areas shall be hard surfaced and graded so as to drain off all surface water to storm sewer inlets.

A. Bumpers: Bumper guards are required, wherever needed, to protect adjacent property or vehicles.

B. Fences, Walls and Screens: When such parking areas or lots abut upon adjacent residential properties, there shall be provided a masonry wall, solid screen planting of appropriate shrubs or an opaque wooden fence of a height of not less than four feet (4'), along the entire boundary, common to both the residential and parking areas. Lights used to illuminate such parking lots shall be so arranged as to reflect lighting away from the adjoining premises of the residential district.

C. Marking: All required spaces shall be marked on the paving surface.

17.8 Loading Requirements
LOADING REQUIREMENTS. There shall be provided at the time any building is erected or structurally altered, off-street loading space in accordance with the following requirements:

A. All commercial uses--one space for each 15,000 square feet of floor area, or fraction thereof in excess of 5,000 square feet. Where such place is located in a manner that a truck must back directly from a major street into the loading space, a maneuvering space of not less than 49 feet shall be provided.

B. Manufacturing or industrial use–one space for each 10,000 square fee of floor area or fraction thereof in excess of 5,000 square feet. Where such space is located in a manner that a truck must back directly from a major street into the loading space, a maneuvering space of not less that 49 fee shall be provided.

C. Enlargements and extensions. No building or part thereof heretofore erected which is used for any of the purposes specified above, shall hereafter be enlarged or extended unless off street loading space is provided in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.

17.9 Design Standards
DESIGN STANDARDS.

A. Location: All required loading berths shall be off-street and shall be located on the same lot as the building to be served. No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within a required front or side yard.

B. Area: Unless otherwise specified in this Chapter, a required loading berth shall be at least ten feet (10') in width by at least twenty-five feet (25') in length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').

C. Access: Each required loading berth shall be served by appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which will not unreasonably interfere with traffic movement.

D. Surfacing: All open loading berths shall be graded and paved or otherwise improved with bituminous concrete or Portland cement concrete.

E. Storage, Repair and Service: No storage of any kind, nor motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind, shall be permitted within any required loading berth.

F. Drainage: All loading berths shall be provided with adequate drainage facilities to carry surface and storm waters into storm sewers or drainage ditches.

G. Space Allocated: Space allocated to a required loading berth shall not be used to satisfy any requirement of this Chapter for off-street parking spaces.

17.10 Exemptions
EXEMPTION.

Exemption: The area known as the Downtown Business Strip, described as businesses located on East North Avenue and West North Avenue between State Street and Sycamore Street, is exempted from the requirements of this Chapter.

Chapter 18: Nonconformities

Index
18.1 Purpose
18.2 Nonconformint Lots
18.3 Nonconforming Buildings
18.4 Nonconforming Uses
18.5 Nonconformities Under Permit Authority
18.1 Purpose
PURPOSE. The requirements imposed by this Title are designed to guide the use of land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are compatible with the predominant character of each of the various districts. Lots, structures, and uses of land or structures that do not conform to the requirements of the district in which they are located impede appropriate development. For example, nonconformities are frequently responsible for heavy traffic on residential streets, the overtaxing of parking facilities, the emission of noxious fumes or excessive noise, and/or the lowering of property values. The regulations of this Title are intended to alleviate such existing/potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of nonconformities.

18.2 Nonconformint Lots
NONCONFORMING LOTS.

Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of the lot size (area, dimensions) requirements of the district in which it is located may be used if such vacant lot:

A. is of record on the date of the adoption or amendment of this Title; and

B. has continuously remained in separate ownership from abutting tracts of land throughout the entire period during which the creation of such lot was prohibited by an applicable zoning or other Title, and

C. is at least thirty (30) feet wide.

Two or More Lots in Common Ownership. If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage were of record and in common ownership on the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Title, and if one or more of those lots does not meet the minimum lot width, depth, and area requirements of the district in which it is located, the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel. No portion of any such parcel shall be developed except in compliance with this Title, nor shall any such parcel be divided so as to create a lot that does not meet the requirements of this Title.

18.3 Nonconforming Buildings
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS. If a lawful use of a building, or of buildings and premises in combination exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Title, that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this Title, the lawful use may be continued subject to the following provisions:

Enlargement/Alterations. No existing building devoted to a use not permitted in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed or structurally altered except in changing the use of the building to a use permitted in the district in which it is located, nor shall the intensity of such use be increased or extended. Except, any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were initially arranged or designed for use at the time of adoption or amendment of this Title, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.

Restoration/Reconstruction. Any nonconforming building or structure destroyed or damaged by any means by more than sixty (60) percent of its then fair market value, exclusive of the foundations, shall not be restored or reconstructed unless after restoration or reconstruction of the building or structure it will conform to all regulations of the district in which it is located. If the Administrator determines that less than sixty (60) percent of its then fair market value above the foundations has been damaged or destroyed, restoration or reconstruction shall be permitted, provided it can be done within six months from the date the damage occurred.

The Administrator may require that the reconstruction cost estimate be made by a bona fide construction contractor, and that the building’s market value at the time of loss be determined by a licensed real estate appraiser. The owner of the damaged building shall be responsible for obtaining these estimates for the Administrator.

Setbacks. Any building at the time of passage or amendment to this Title which was not in conformity with required side yard, rear yard or front yard setbacks of the zoning district in which it is located shall not be considered a nonconforming use, building or premises, and may be expanded or structurally enlarged provided all requirements of the district regulations including setback requirements are complied with for the portion of the expanded or structurally enlarged building. Also, any building within a commercial district where the existing and continuing use of such building is in conformity with the commercial zoning district regulations within which it is located shall not be considered a nonconforming use if not in conformity with required side yard, rear yard or front yard setbacks and may be reconstructed if damaged or destroyed providing the reconstructed building does no contain more floor space or occupy a larger area than the original building.

Repairs/Safety. On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that the cubic content of the building as it existed at the time of passage or amendment of this Title shall not be increased except as above provided. Nothing in this Title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.

18.4 Nonconforming Uses
NONCONFORMING USES.

Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Title, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of this Title, such use may be continued subject to the following provisions:

A. No such nonconforming use or the intensity of such use, shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Title.

B. No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Title.

C. A nonconforming use occupying a structure shall not be changed except to another nonconforming use of the same restricted classification or to a use permitted under the applicable district regulations. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.

D. When a nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and premises in combination, is discontinued for a period of six (6) months, the nonconforming use shall not thereafter be resumed, and any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the applicable district regulations. Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any contributing fault by the nonconforming user shall not be counted in calculating the length of the said discontinuance. (Amended 10/3/94; Ordinance #94-1225)

18.5 Nonconformities Under Permit Authority
NONCONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY. The regulations of this Title shall not apply to any change in an existing building or to any change in the use of a building or of land for which a permit was issued prior to the effective date of this title or any pertinent amendment thereto provided that the work authorized by such permit has been substantially begun within six (6) months and is being diligently pursued to completion

Chapter 19: Supplemental Regulations

Index
19.1 Height Regulations
19.2 Yard Regulations
19.3 Two Family and Multi Family Conversions
19.4 Fences
19.5 Swimming Pools
19.1 Height Regulations
HEIGHT REGULATIONS.

Public, semi-public or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and temples may be erected to a height not to exceed 75 feet, if the building is set back from each yard line at least one foot for each foot of additional building height above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building is located.

Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, grain elevators, ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio or television towers or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the City.

19.2 Yard Regulations
YARD REGULATIONS.

Front Yards.

An open enclosed uncovered porch, such porch not to be above the first floor level or paved terrace may project into a front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.

When on the effective date of this Title, or amendment thereto, 40 percent or more or a frontage was occupied by two or more buildings, then the depth of the front yard heretofore established shall be adjusted in the following manner:

A. When the building furthest from the street provides a front yard no more than 10 feet deeper than the building closest to the street, then the depth of the front yard for the frontage is the average setback of the existing buildings.

B. When the situation from that in paragraph (A) is within 100 feet of an existing building on each side, then the depth of the front yard is determined by a line drawn from the closest front corners of these two adjacent buildings.

C. When the situation differs from that in paragraph (A) or (B) and the lot is within 100 feet of an existing building on one side only, then the depth of the front yard is the same as that of the existing adjacent building.

D. Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets. No accessory  building shall project beyond the front yard line on either street. No fence, structure or planting higher than 30 inches above the established street grades shall be maintained within 20 feet of any street intersection.

Intrusions into Yards

The following features of principal buildings may intrude a maximum of four feet (4') into required yards without violating the minimum setback requirements: cornices, chimneys, planters, fire escapes, stairways, balconies, canopies, roof overhangs and other similar ornamental features.

19.3 Two Family and Multi Family Conversions
TWO-FAMILY AND MULTI-FAMILY CONVERSION.

Conversion, where the alteration or conversion of a building which has been in use as a single-family residence prior to passage or amendment of this Title, into a two-family dwelling or a multi-family dwelling may be permitted, by district, provided, however, that:

A. The enclosed usable floor of the building shall not be increased nor shall the height of the building be increased. The enclosed usable area shall not include open porches or terraces.

B. All single-family dwellings converted to two-family or multi-family dwellings, as well as all remodeling or conversions of existing multi-family dwellings shall be constructed so that no dwelling unit shall contain less than the square footage of livable floor area as defined under the City of Flora’s City Code. Title 7, Chapter 2, Dwelling Unit Standards, as adopted and as may be amended.

C. The conversion of the building meets all requirements of the district in which it is located. The applicant shall submit plans in sufficient detail to enable the Administrative Official to determine whether or not the proposed conversion complies with the requirements of this Chapter.

19.4 Fences
FENCES.

Fences are not considered a structure and are exempt from the regulation limiting accessory buildings to 30 percent of the rear yard. A site plan must be submitted to the Administrative Official prior to a permit being issued.

Residential Districts:

Fences shall be permitted in required rear and side yards up to 6'0" high, as measured from the topmost point to the ground or surface along the center line of the fence. Fences in a required front yard shall be permitted up to a maximum of 36" high, and shall be ornamental with at least fifty percent (50%) of its surface open as viewed from the street. (Amended 1/5/98; Ordinance #98-1404) No wire or steel mesh fencing may be used as a part of an ornamental fence.

Six-foot (6') privacy fences that extend along the side yard from the front lot line to the rear lot line may be permitted as determined by the Administrative Official. The Administrative Official may not permit the construction of any privacy fence which would in any way create a visual obstruction for pedestrians or vehicular traffic. (Amended 1/5/98; Ordinance #98-1404)

Other:

Fences enclosing an institution, a public park, public playground, school, junior college site, commercial or industrial sites, may be eight feet high.

Fences surrounding tennis courts shall be open wire mesh fences and shall not exceed 12 feet in height.

No barbed wire or electrically-charged fence shall be erected or maintained anywhere in this municipality.

No fence, wall, or other construction shall be erected within any public right-of-way, except by written permission of the Administrative Official.

No fence, wall, or other obstruction shall be erected in violation of the Illinois Drainage Code (70 ILS 605/2-12, as may be amended).

No fence shall be placed or erected that would obstruct a motorist’s clear view at intersecting streets.

19.5 Swimming Pools
SWIMMING POOLS

A site plan must be submitted to the Administrative Official prior to a permit being issued.

 

A. No swimming pool, above ground or below ground, shall be located in any front yard or closer than ten feet to any side or rear lot line.

B. Every swimming pool that is more than two feet (2') deep shall be enclosed by a wall or fence at least four feet (4') in height. The passage through such wall or fence shall be equipped with a gate capable of being secured by locking means.

C. All below-ground swimming pools shall comply with the 2015 International Pool and Spa Code, as adopted by the Flora City Council, and as may be amended.

 

 

 

N O T I C E

SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS

According to the International Property Maintenance Code:

303.2 - Enclosures

Any private swimming pool, spa or hot tub that contains water that is greater than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth is required to be completely surrounded by a fence or barrier that is at least 48 inches (1219 mm) in height above finished ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool.

Swimming pool and fence permits are required.

Chapter 20: Administration

Index
20.1 Enforcement
20.2 Building Permits and Plats
20.3 Grading Permits
20.4 Corrective Action
20.5 Penalty for Violation
20.1 Enforcement
ENFORCEMENT. It shall be the responsibility of the Administrative Official to cause enforcement of this Title. The Administrative Official is also responsible for keeping the zoning map up to date, and to have published no later than March 31 of each year a map clearly showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations and classifications. If there are no changes in zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations and classifications during a calendar year, no map shall be published for such calendar year.

20.2 Building Permits and Plats
BUILDING PERMITS AND PLATS. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered or remodeled until a building permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector stating that the building or structure, and the use of land, comply with the regulations of this Title and all building and health laws and ordinances. As used herein, "remodeled" is defined to mean to work over into a new arrangement, to make alterations to, or to reconstruct. Applications for a building permit shall be submitted to the Building Inspector and shall be reviewed by the Administrative Official prior to approval. This section shall apply to all structures erected, altered or remodeled in all districts, with the exception of farm buildings, farm dwellings and farm accessory uses located and permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District. Farm Buildings, farm dwellings and farm accessory uses shall mean any building or use primarily associated and used in normal operations of a farm.

All petitioners for such building permits shall submit with the application a plat, in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or structure to be erected or structurally altered, its location on the lot or lots and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of these regulations. The property shall be surveyed by a licensed surveyor, if required by the City. A careful record of such applications and plats shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector.

20.3 Grading Permits
GRADING PERMITS. In all zoned districts, except A-1 Agricultural, grading, filling, excavating or any change in the grade or property that involves the moving, depletion or replacement of more than 50 cubic yards of material or changes the existing elevation by more than two feet requires a permit. Applications for a grading permit shall be submitted to the Building Inspector with a $10.00 fee and shall be accompanied by a plan in size suitable for filing, drawn to scale showing the areas to be graded, the depth of cut and fill, and an estimate of total cubic cut and fill. All applications for grading permits shall be reviewed by the Administrative Official prior to approval. A record of the applications and plans shall be kept in the office of the Building Inspector.

20.4 Corrective Action
CORRECTIVE ACTION. Whenever the Administrative Official determines, whether following inspection conducted by the Building Inspector or otherwise, that any lot, structure, use or work thereon, is in violation of this Title, he shall cause to have notified the responsible party and shall recommend to the City that appropriate action be taken.

Contents of Violation Notification and Corrective Action Order. The notice of violation and corrective action order shall be in writing and shall include:

a. a description of the premises sufficient for identification:

b. a statement indicating the nature of the violation;

c. a statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;

d. the date by which the violation must be corrected;

e. a statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference with the Administrative Official, or his designee, if he so desires;

f. the date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be filed, and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and

g. a statement that failure to obey a correction action order my result in the imposition of fines.

Service of Notification and Corrective Action Order. The notification and corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the owner, occupant, or operator of the property or structure considered to be in violation if it is:

a. served upon him personally;

b. sent by certified mail to his last known address; or

c. posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.

20.5 Penalty for Violation
PENALTY FOR VIOLATION. It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any building, structure or premises in violation of the terms of this Title. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Title shall be considered to be in violation and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every day that such violation continues. Any such person, having been served with an order to remove any such violation, failing to comply with such order within ten days (10) after such notice, or continuing to violate any provisions of the regulations in the respect named in such order, shall also be subject to a civil penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00).

Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the City of Flora from taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with this Title

Chapter 21: Matters Entrusted to the Zoning

Index
21.1 Zoning Board Establishment
21.2 Appeals
21.3 Variances
21.4 Special Uses
21.5 Amendments and Changes
21.1 Zoning Board Establishment
ZONING BOARD ESTABLISHMENT. The Zoning Board of this municipality is hereby established in accordance with 65ILCS 5/11-13-3, as may be amended from time to time.

Membership, Appointment. The Zoning Board shall consist of seven members, all of whom shall reside within the zoning limits of this municipality. Each Board member shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. One of the members so appointed shall be named as chairman at the time of his appointment.

Term of Office, Vacancies. The initial appointees to the Board shall serve respectively for the following terms: one for one year, one for two years, one for three years, one for four years, one for five years, one for six years, and one for seven years. Thereafter, each Board Member shall hold office for five years from the date of his appointment, and until his successor has been selected and qualified. With the advice and consent of the Council, the Mayor may remove any member of the Zoning Board for cause, after a public hearing. Vacancies on the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in the same manner as provided for the appointment of new members.

Meetings, Quorum. Regular meetings of the Zoning Board shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month. Special meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairman or at the request of any three members of the Board. All Board meetings shall be open to the public. The Board may adopt their own rules of meeting procedures consistent with this Title and the applicable Illinois statutes. The Board may select such officers as they deem necessary. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of at least four members shall be necessary to authorize any Board action. No meeting shall be held without a quorum. (Amended 6/7/04; Ordinance #04-1847)

Hearings on Appeals. The Board shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirements, decision or determination made by the Administrative Official in the enforcement of this Title. All final administrative decisions of the Board made under this provision shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the "Administrative Review Act," 735 ILCS 5/3-101, as may be amended from time to time.

Hearings on Other Petitions. The Board is authorized and delegated the authority to hear all petitions for change of zoning or for amendments of this Title, applications for variances and special use permits, and shall submit its recommendations, based upon findings of fact to the City Council for enactment by an amending ordinance, or rejection. The Board shall have no authority to authorize any variance, special use, change of zoning or amendment of this Title.

Records. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and examinations. These minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the vote or abstention of each member on each question, and any official action taken. A copy of every rule, variance, order, or decision of the Board shall be filed immediately in City Hall and shall be public record.

21.2 Appeals
APPEALS. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Administrative Official in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any provision of this Title may appeal to the Zoning Board. Every such appeal shall be made and treated in accordance with Illinois law (65 ILS 5/11-13-12, as amended) and the provisions of this section.

Filing, Record Transmittal. Every appeal shall be made within 45 days of the matter complained of by filing with the Administrative Official and the Zoning Board a written notice specifying the grounds for appeal, together with a filing fee of ten dollars ($10.00). Not more than five working days after the notice of appeal has been filed, the Administrative Official shall transmit to the Board all records pertinent to the case.

Stay of Further Proceedings. An appeal stays all further action on the matter being appealed unless the Administrative Official certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that for reasons stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, further action shall not be stayed unless the Board or the circuit court grants a restraining order for due cause, and so notifies the Administrative Official.

Public Hearing, Notice. The Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing on every appeal within a reasonable time after the filing of the appeal notice. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time, date, and place of the hearing, and briefly describing the issue to be decided shall be given to the appellant, the Administrative Official, and to any other department of the City which might be affected by the appeal.

Notice shall also be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this municipality. At the hearing, parties in interest may appear in person or by agent or by attorney and testify and offer evidence relevant and material to the issue.

Decision by Zoning Board. The Zoning Board shall render a decision on the appeal within a reasonable time after the hearing. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the decision or order appealed from to the extent and in the manner that they deem appropriate. In so doing, the board has all the powers of the Administrative Official.

21.3 Variances
VARIANCES. A variance is a relaxation of the requirements of this Title that are applicable to a structure to be constructed or structurally altered on a given zoning lot.

Procedure. All petitions for a variance shall follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 22 of this Title.

Standards for Variances. The Zoning Board shall not recommend the granting of any variance unless, based upon the evidence presented to him, they determine that:

a. the proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of this Title; and

b. strict application of the district requirements would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant, and prevent a reasonable return on the property; and

c. the proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship, and allow a reasonable return on the property; and

d. the plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of his own making; and

e. the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the area where the premises in question are located nor materially frustrate implementation of the City’s Comprehensive Plan.

21.4 Special Uses
SPECIAL USES. A special use permit grants permission to an applicant to use property in a manner contrary to this Title provided that the intended use is one of those specifically listed in the district the property is located in and provided that the public convenience will be served by the use.

Procedure. All petitions for special use shall follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 22 of this Title.

Review. The Board shall not recommend approval of the application unless it determines:

a. that the proposed design, location and manner of operation will adequately protect the public health, safety, welfare, and the physical environment;

b. that the proposed special use is consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Plan;

c. what effect the proposed special use would have on the value of neighboring property and on the City’s tax base;

d. what effect the proposed special use would have on public utilities and traffic circulation of nearby streets; and

e. whether or not there are any facilities (i.e., schools or hospital) near the proposed special use that require special protection.

21.5 Amendments and Changes
AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES. The zoning regulations imposed and the districts created by this Title may be amended from time to time by ordinance, but no such amendment shall be made without a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.

Procedure. All petitions for amendments proposing changes in the regulations or in the district boundary lines shall follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 22 of this Title.

Findings of Fact. When the proposed amendment alters district boundaries or changes the status of any use, the Board shall include in their recommendation to City Council findings of fact concerning each of the following:

a. existing use(s) and zoning of the property in question;

b. existing use(s) and zoning of other lots adjacent to the property in question

c. suitability of the property in question for the proposed use;

d. changes (if any) in the vicinity that may have occurred since the property was initially zoned or last rezoned; and,

e. whether or not the proposed change is in keeping with the City’s Comprehensive Plan.

Protest. Whenever a written protest against such amendment, signed and acknowledged by:

a. owners of twenty (20) percent of the frontage property proposed to be altered;

b. owners of twenty (20) percent of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom; or

c. owners of twenty (20) percent of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered;

is filed with the City Clerk, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of four-fifths of the Council members then holding office. In such cases, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the protestor or protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant’s attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of such applicant and attorney shown in the application.

Council Vote Contrary to Zoning Board Recommendation. It shall require a favorable vote of at least four-fifths of the Council members then holding office to approve the proposed amendment when the Zoning Board has recommended against it.

Chapter 22: Procedure for Petitions

Index
22.1 Petition for Change
22.2 Notification to Review Agencies
22.3 Notifications to Others
22.4 Public Hearing
22.5 Expiration of Permit
22.1 Petition for Change
PETITION FOR CHANGE. The Petitioner, for zoning change, special use, and/or variance shall present a Petition, in writing, upon forms furnished and available at the office of the City Clerk, together with the filing fee of fifty Dollars ($50.00). The Petitioner shall, in addition to the filing fee, deposit with the City Clerk the sum of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00). Any legal fees incurred by the City as a result of such action of said Petition shall be deducted from said Two Hundred Dollar ($200.00) deposit. The balance, if any after said legal fees are paid, shall be refunded to the Petitioner. Furthermore, the Petitioner shall have published an official Notice of Public Hearing in the local newspaper not more than thirty (30) days or less than fifteen (15) days before the meeting of the Zoning Board at which the petition is to be heard. (Amended 2/3/97; Ordinance #97-1343 & Amended 1/5/98; Ordinance #98-1404) The Public Notice shall state:

a. purpose of the public hearing;

b. name of the petitioner;

c. address of the property named in the petition (both legal description and street address);

d. date, time and place of the Zoning Board meeting at which the public hearing will be held;

e. the place where the petition and any applicable maps will be accessible for examination by interested parties.

After payment of all costs of attorney's fees or other fees, and any balance that remains from the Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) deposited as described hereinabove shall be refunded to the Petitioner. In addition to the payment as set forth hereinabove for the Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00), it shall be the sole responsibility of the Petitioner to pay all costs of publication to the applicable newspaper. In the event any further sums are due for costs incurred by the City on said petition, the Petitioner shall pay said costs prior to the City Council passing an ordinance pursuant to the public hearing.

The Petitioner in any special meeting of the Zoning Board which is called on behalf of said Petitioner and at the request of said Petitioner, shall pay a fee of Six Hundred Dollars ($600.00) which said fee shall cover the deposit, legal fees and the fees charged for the seven (7) board member attendance at the Zoning Board and any other costs associated therewith. The balance, if any after said fees are paid for said special meeting shall be refunded to said Petitioner. In the event said Six Hundred Dollars ($600.00) is insufficient to pay all costs associated with said Petition and hearing thereon, the Petitioner shall pay the balance prior the City Council enacting an ordinance on said Petition and pursuant to said public hearing. In addition to the Six Hundred Dollar ($600.00) deposit set forth hereinabove, it shall be the sole responsibility and expense of the Petitioner to pay all costs of publication incurred to the applicable newspaper.

 

22.2 Notification to Review Agencies
NOTIFICATION TO REVIEW AGENCIES. The Administrative Official shall notify and forward pertinent information to the following: Zoning Board of Appeals; Building Inspector; City Attorney; Superintendent of Utilities; Clay County Soil and Water Conservation District; and applicable Drainage District(s).

The Building Inspector, City Attorney, Superintendent of Utilities, Clay County Soil and Water Conservation District, and Drainage District(s) shall present their review, if any, to the Zoning Board of Appeals no later than the board’s meeting at which the petition is to be heard.

22.3 Notifications to Others
NOTIFICATION TO OTHERS. The petitioner, for zoning change, special use, and/or variance shall notify, in writing, all property owners whose property directly abuts the petitioner’s property named in the petition. Proof of such notification must be obtained by the petitioner either by signature of all applicable property owners on a notice of petition, or by notice of petition sent to all applicable property owners by certified mail at the last known address(es) of such owners.

22.3(a) For the purposes of the above notification, the property lines of the property subject of the Petition which abut streets, roads or alleys, shall be considered to extend through said streets, roads or alleys and those properties then abutting said property lines shall be notified as described in 22.3 above.  (Amended 4/7/97; Ordinance #97-1353)

22.4 Public Hearing
PUBLIC HEARING. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing within fifteen (15) to thirty (30) days following the publication of official notice in the newspaper. The petitioner may be represented by counsel during the public hearing. Information and facts may be presented at the public hearing by the petitioner as he deems necessary. Any interested party may appear and testify during the public hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. The Zoning Board shall consider the advice of the review agencies, listen to the petitioner, hear any public statements, and consider its own counsel. The Zoning Board shall forward its findings to the Flora City Council. All zoning changes, special use permits, and variances shall be finally determined, and either granted by ordinance or denied, by the City Council.

22.5 Expiration of Permit
EXPIRATION OF PERMIT. If the work described in any special use permit, variance permit, fence permit, or swimming pool permit is not commenced and completed within three (3) months from the date of final approval, said permit shall automatically expire and shall be considered void unless extended by written notice of the Administrative Official to the persons affected. If the work described in any building permit has not been substantially completed within one year of the estimated date of completion, said permit shall expire and be cancelled, unless extended by written notice of the Administrative Official to the persons affected. The developer shall be responsible for obtaining the necessary building, use, sewer and water connection permits as required.
 
 
 
 
 




 


