
Carroll, IA, Iowa Code of Ordinances


CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF
CARROLL, IOWA




© Iowa Codification, Inc.





Copyright Notice





Adopted November 14, 2011, by Ordinance No. 1110




 


Notes

© Iowa Codification, Inc. 
Iowa Codification, Inc.
P. O. Box 141
610 Buddy Holly Place
Clear Lake, Iowa  50428

Copyright Notice 
Materials contained in this Code of Ordinances are based on or quoted
directly from the work entitled Comprehensive Model Code of Ordinances for
Iowa Cities which is protected by copyright.

Permission has been granted by the copyright holder, Iowa Codification, Inc.,
to the City of Carroll, Iowa, to make copies of this Code of Ordinances for
distribution to officials, employees and citizens of the City of Carroll, for
use in carrying out duties and responsibilities of such persons with relation
to the City as may be required or facilitated by such copies.

Reproduction for all other persons is prohibited without the written
permission of Iowa Codification, Inc.



GENERAL CODE PROVISIONS



CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES



 

1.01  Title
 
1.08  Amendments


1.02  Definitions
 
1.09  Catchlines and Notes


1.03  City Powers
 
1.10  Altering Code


1.04  Indemnity
 
1.11  Severability


1.05  Personal Injuries
 
1.12  Warrants


1.06  Rules of Construction
 
1.13  General Standards for Action


1.07  Extension of Authority
 
1.14  Standard Penalty



 



1.01  TITLE.



This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Carroll, Iowa.



1.02  DEFINITIONS.



Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of
the Council or repugnant to the context of the provision.  Other words and
phrases used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined
otherwise in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or
repugnant to the context of the provision:



1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street,
affording secondary means of access to abutting property. 



2.   “City” means the City of Carroll, Iowa.



3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Carroll, Iowa.



4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in
which a specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such
as the Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).



5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Carroll, Iowa.



6.   “Council” means the city council of Carroll, Iowa.



7.   “County” means Carroll County, Iowa.



8.   “May” confers a power.



9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.



10.   “Must” states a requirement.



11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land,
includes any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.



12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Carroll, Iowa,
as embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the
ordinance adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.



13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or
foreign corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust
or other legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.



14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway,
highway, sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.



15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.



16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the
edge of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property
line, intended for the use of pedestrians.



17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.



18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of
Iowa, as amended.



19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between
property lines of every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof
is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular traffic.



Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.



1.03  CITY POWERS.



The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any
power and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve
the rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)



1.04  INDEMNITY.



The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however
arising from or related to, directly, indirectly or remotely, the issuance of
the permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of
such applicant, or the agents, employees or servants of such applicant, to
abide by or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or
the terms and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by
making such application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its
officers, agents and employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and
all claims, demands, lawsuits or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage,
injury or death, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason
of the foregoing.  The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a
part of any permit or license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any
other ordinance of the City whether expressly recited therein or not.



1.05  PERSONAL INJURIES.



When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused.  The notice shall state
the pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location
of the court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged
facts from which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person
notified is liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and
asking the person to appear and defend.  A judgment obtained in the suit is
conclusive in any action by the City against any person so notified, as to
the existence of the defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the
liability of the City to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to
the amount of the damage or injury.  The City may maintain an action against
the person notified to recover the amount of the judgment together with all
the expenses incurred by the City in the suit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)



1.06  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.



In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized
to ascertain the intent of the Council with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.



1.07  EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.



Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.



1.08  AMENDMENTS.



All ordinances that amend, repeal or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)



1.09  CATCHLINES AND NOTES.



The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross
references, and State law references, unless set out in the body of the
section itself, contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any
part of the law and are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or
clarify the contents of a section.



1.10  ALTERING CODE.



It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.



1.11  SEVERABILITY.



If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity
of this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part
thereof not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.



1.12  WARRANTS.



If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon
or conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant.  No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.



1.13  GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.



Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard:  The discretionary power to
grant, deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts
and circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.



1.14  STANDARD PENALTY.



Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
sixty-five dollars ($65.00) but not to exceed six hundred twenty-five dollars
($625.00).  The court may order imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days
in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])



CHAPTER 2
CHARTER



 

2.01  Title
 
2.04  Number and Term of Council


2.02  Form of Government
 
2.05  Term of Mayor


2.03  Powers and Duties of City Officers
 
2.06  Copies on File



 



2.01  TITLE.



This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Carroll, Iowa.† 1



2.02  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.



The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council with appointed
Manager form of government.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)



2.03  POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.



The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.



2.04  NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.



The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of four wards as established by this Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)



2.05  TERM OF MAYOR.



The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)



2.06  COPIES ON FILE.



The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep
copies of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)



 


Notes

1 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. C7507 adopting a charter for the City was
passed and approved by the Council on July 23, 1975, and was published on
July 25, 1975, in the Daily Times Herald, Carroll, Iowa.



CHAPTER 3
ELECTION WARDS AND VOTING PRECINCTS



 

3.01  Division into Wards
 
3.02  Voting Precincts



 



3.01  DIVISION INTO WARDS.



The City is divided into four wards, described as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 & 372.13[7])



1.   First Ward.  The First Ward includes all that part of the City of
Carroll lying, for the most part, north and east of the following described
lines:



Beginning at the northern corporate limits, located approximately eleven
hundred seventy-two feet north of the intersection of North West Street and
Thirtieth Street; thence southerly along the center of corporate limits and
all described streets to the centerline of Fairway Heights; thence easterly
and southerly to the centerline of Randall Road; thence easterly to the
second centerline of Todd Terrace; thence easterly to the centerline of Grant
Road; thence southerly to the centerline of Eighteenth Street; thence
westerly to the centerline of Pike Avenue; thence southerly to the centerline
of Bass Street; thence easterly to the centerline of Grant Road; thence
southerly to the centerline of Parkview Drive; thence easterly to the
centerline of Vine Street; thence southerly to the centerline of Eleventh
Street; thence easterly to the centerline of Forest Street; thence southerly
to the centerline of Woodland Drive; thence easterly to the centerline of
Bella Vista Drive; thence southerly to the center of U. S. Highway 30; thence
easterly to the east corporate line.



2.   Second Ward.  The Second Ward includes all that part of the City of
Carroll lying, for the most part, north and west of the following described
lines:



Beginning at the northern and western corporate limits, located approximately
one hundred feet north of the intersection of North West Street and Fairway
Heights; thence southerly along the center of all described streets to the
centerline of Fairway Heights; thence easterly and southerly to the
centerline of Randall Road; thence easterly to the second centerline of Todd
Terrace; thence easterly to the centerline of Grant Road; thence southerly to
the centerline of Eighteenth Street; thence westerly to the centerline of
Pike Avenue; thence southerly to the centerline of Bass Street; thence
easterly to the centerline of Grant Road; thence southerly to the centerline
of Twelfth Street; thence westerly to the centerline of Adams Street; thence
northerly to the centerline of Thirteenth Street; thence westerly to the
centerline of North West Street; thence northerly to the centerline of
Fourteenth Street; thence westerly to the centerline of Quint Avenue; thence
northerly to the centerline of Fifteenth Street; thence westerly to the
centerline of U. S. Highway 71; thence northerly to the centerline of Heires
Avenue; thence westerly to the centerline of U. S. Highway 30; thence
northwesterly and westerly to the corporate line, located approximately two
thousand fivehundred thirty-nine feet west of the centerline of Burgess
Avenue.



3.   Third Ward.  The Third Ward includes all that part of the City, for
the most part, south and west of the following described lines:



Beginning at the west corporate line, located approximately two thousand
fivehundred thirty-nine feet west of the centerline of Burgess Avenue, at the
centerline of U. S. Highway 30 and following the centerline of all described
streets, thence east and southeasterly to the centerline of Heires Avenue,
thence easterly to the centerline of U. S. Highway 71, thence southerly to
the centerline of Fifteenth Street; thence easterly to the centerline of
Quint Street; thence southerly to the centerline of Fourteenth Street; thence
easterly to the centerline of North West Street; thence south to the
centerline of Thirteenth Street; thence east to the centerline of Adams
Street; thence southerly to the centerline of Twelfth Street; thence easterly
to the centerline of Main Street; thence southerly to the centerline of
Timberline Road; thence westerly to the centerline of Hidden Valley Road;
thence southerly to the corporate line.



4.   Fourth Ward.  The Fourth Ward includes all that part of the City,
for the most part, south and east of the following described lines:



Beginning at the east corporate line at U.S. Highway 30, following the
centerline of all described streets, thence westerly along U. S. Highway 30
to the centerline of Bella Vista Drive; thence northerly to the centerline of
Woodland Drive; thence westerly to the centerline of Forest Street; thence
northerly to the centerline of Eleventh Street; thence westerly to the
centerline of Vine Street; thence northerly to the centerline of Parkview
Drive; thence westerly to the centerline of Grant Road; thence northerly to
the centerline of Twelfth Street; thence westerly to the centerline of Main
Street; thence southerly to the centerline of Timberline Road; thence
westerly to the centerline of Hidden Valley Road; thence southerly to the
corporate line.



3.02  VOTING PRECINCTS. 



1.   Precinct One:  Boundaries correspond with Ward 1.



2.   Precinct Two:  Boundaries correspond with Ward 2 and including the
North ½ of Maple River Township.



3.   Precinct Three:  Boundaries correspond with Ward 3 and including the
South ½ of Maple River Township.



4.   Precinct Four:  Boundaries correspond with Ward 4.



(Ch. 3 – Ord. 1108 – Dec. 11 Supp.)



CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS



 

4.01  Municipal Infraction
 
4.04  Civil Citations


4.02  Environmental Violation
 
4.05  Alternative Relief


4.03  Penalties
 
4.06  Criminal Penalties



 



4.01  MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.



A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein
adopted by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically
provided under State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious
misdemeanor, or a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the
Code of Iowa, is a municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as
provided herein.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])



4.02  ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.



A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an
environmental violation.  However, the provisions of this section shall not
be applicable until the City has offered to participate in informal
negotiations regarding the violation or to the following specific violations:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])



1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard
or requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.



2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the
handling, drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the
industrial production or manufacturing of grain products.



3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the
handling, drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial
production or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to
January 15.



4.03  PENALTIES.



A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])



1.   Standard Civil Penalties.



   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00



   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00



Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.



2.   Special Civil Penalties.



   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for
each day a violation exists or continues.



   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence. 
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:



      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial
startup, cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or
conducting a shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the
equipment designed to reduce or eliminate the violation.



      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within twenty-four
(24) hours from the time that the violation begins.



      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more
than eight (8) hours.



4.04  CIVIL CITATIONS.



Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction.  A
copy of the citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of
Civil Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at
defendant’s last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by
publication in the manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and
subject to the conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311.  A copy of the
citation shall be retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation
shall be sent to the Clerk of the District Court.  The citation shall serve
as notification that a civil offense has been committed and shall contain the
following information:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])



1.   The name and address of the defendant.



2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.



3.   The location and time of the infraction.



4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.



5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.



6.   The time and place of court appearance.



7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.



8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.



If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local
housing regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or
safety violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District
Court, the City shall also file the citation in the office of the County
Treasurer.



4.05  ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.



Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. 
Such alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for
abatement or injunctive relief.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[8])



4.06  CRIMINAL PENALTIES.



This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation.  Nor does it preclude or
limit the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of
Ordinances by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])



CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES



 

5.01  Oaths
 
5.07  Conflict of Interest


5.02  Bonds
 
5.08  Resignations


5.03  Powers and Duties
 
5.09  Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees


5.04  Books and Records
 
5.10  Vacancies


5.05  Transfer to Successor
 
5.11  Gifts


5.06  Meetings
 
 



 



5.01  OATHS.



The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:



1.   Qualify for Office.  Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify
for office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a
bond.  The oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is
certified as elected, no later than noon of the first day that is not a
Sunday or a legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which
the officer was elected.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)



2.   Prescribed Oath.  The prescribed oath is:  “I, (name), do
solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and
impartially, to the best of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of
(name of office) in Carroll as now or hereafter required by law.”



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)



3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths.  The following are empowered
to administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:



   A.   Mayor



   B.   City Clerk



   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)



5.02  BONDS.



Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:



1.   Required.  The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond
or blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)



2.   Bonds Approved.  Bonds shall be approved by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)



3.   Bonds Filed.  All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])



4.   Record.  The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record
of Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all
City officers, elective or appointive.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])



5.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.



Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by
the Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



5.04  BOOKS AND RECORDS.



All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of
law expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept
confidential.  Access to public records that are combined with data
processing software shall be in accordance with policies and procedures
established by the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)



5.05  TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.



Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



5.06  MEETINGS.



All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be
held in accordance with the following:



1.   Notice of Meetings.  Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of
the time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be
given.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)



2.   Meetings Open.  All meetings shall be held in open session unless
closed sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)



3.   Minutes.  Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date,
time and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. 
The minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information
sufficient to indicate the vote of each member present.  The vote of each
member present shall be made public at the open session.  The minutes shall
be public records open to public inspection.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)



4.   Closed Session.  A closed session may be held only by affirmative
vote of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the
meeting and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)



5.   Cameras and Recorders.  The public may use cameras or recording
devices at any open session.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)



6.   Electronic Meetings.  A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)



5.07  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.



A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. 
A contract entered into in violation of this section is void.  The
provisions of this section do not apply to:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)



1.   Compensation of Officers.  The payment of lawful compensation of a
City officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the
holding of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not
prohibited by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])



2.   Investment of Funds.  The designation of a bank or trust company as
a depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])



3.   City Treasurer.  An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves
as Treasurer of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])



4.   Stock Interests.  Contracts in which a City officer or employee has
an interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract.  The competitive bid
qualification of this subsection does not apply to a contract for
professional services not customarily awarded by competitive bid.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])



5.   Newspaper.  The designation of an official newspaper. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])



6.   Existing Contracts.  A contract in which a City officer or employee
has an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or
employee was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])



7.   Volunteers.  Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])



8.   Corporations.  A contract with a corporation in which a City officer
or employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent (5%) of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or
controlled directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or
immediate family of such officer or employee.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])



9.   Contracts.  Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in
writing, publicly invited and opened. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])



10.   Cumulative Purchases.  Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed
a cumulative total purchase price of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00) in a
fiscal year.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])



11.   Franchise Agreements.  Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])



12.   Third Party Contracts.  A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the
City but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not
be the original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3m])



5.08  RESIGNATIONS.



An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered.  A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible
for appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was
elected if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been
increased.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])



5.09  REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.



Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order.  The order
shall give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall
be sent by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with
the Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing the copy, shall
be granted a public hearing before the Council on all issues connected with
the removal.  The hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days after the
date the request is filed, unless the person removed requests a later date.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)



5.10  VACANCIES.



A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled,
at the Council’s option, by one of the two following procedures:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[2])



1.   Appointment.  By appointment following public notice by the
remaining members of the Council within forty (40) days after the vacancy
occurs, except that if the remaining members do not constitute a quorum of
the full membership, or if a petition is filed requesting an election, the
Council shall call a special election as provided by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[2a])



2.   Election.  By a special election held to fill the office for the
remaining balance of the unexpired term as provided by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[2b])



5.11  GIFTS.



Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or
series of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a
restricted donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly
with one or more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of
gifts to a public official, public employee or candidate.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)



CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS



 

6.01  Nominating Method to be Used
 
6.04  Preparation of Petition and Affidavit


6.02  Nominations by Petition
 
6.05  Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals; Objections


6.03  Adding Name by Petition
 
6.06  Persons Elected



 



6.01  NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.



All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)



6.02  NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.



Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than twenty-five (25) eligible
electors, residents of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)



6.03  ADDING NAME BY PETITION.



The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)



6.04  PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.



Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. 
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by
the State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by
the Code of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)



6.05  FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.



The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency
of such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed
by the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)



6.06  PERSONS ELECTED.



The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])



CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT



 

7.01  Purpose
 
7.05  Operating Budget Preparation


7.02  Finance Officer
 
7.06  Budget Amendments


7.03  Cash Control
 
7.07  Accounting


7.04  Fund Control
 
7.08  Financial Reports



 



7.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.



7.02  FINANCE OFFICER.



The Clerk, under the direction of the City Manager, is the finance and
accounting officer of the City and is responsible for the administration of
the provisions of this chapter.



7.03  CASH CONTROL.



To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:



1.   Deposit of Funds.  All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by
any City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance
officer.  If any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the
officer by check drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council
only upon such officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as
required by law, ordinance, or Council directive. 



2.   Deposits and Investments.  All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State
law, including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code
of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)



3.   Petty Cash Funds.  The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty
cash fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases,
collect-on-delivery transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid
at the time of rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer
shall obtain some form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor
or agent.  At such time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the
finance officer shall draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the
accumulated expenditures and said check and supporting detail shall be
submitted to the Council as a claim in the usual manner for claims and
charged to the proper funds and accounts.  It shall not be used for salary
payments or other personal services or personal expenses.  In the same
manner and under the same conditions, the Parks and Recreation Director shall
be the custodian of a petty cash fund not to exceed $50.00 to meet the needs
of the Recreation Center.



4.   Change Funds.  The finance officer is authorized to draw a check on
the General Fund for establishing a change fund for the purpose of making
change without comingling other funds to meet the requirements of the office.
Said change fund shall be in the custody of the Clerk, who shall maintain the
integrity of the fund. In the same manner and under the same conditions, the
Park and Recreation Director is authorized to draw a check on the General
Fund for establishing a change fund in the amount of $600.00 to meet the
requirements of the Recreation Center, and the Parks and Recreation Director
shall maintain the integrity of that fund. In the same manner and under the
same conditions, the Parks and Recreation Director is authorized to draw a
check on the General Fund for establishing a change fund in the amount of
$400.00 to meet the requirements of the Carroll Family Aquatic Center, and
the Parks and Recreation Director shall maintain the integrity of such fund.
In the same manner and under the same conditions, the Parks and Recreation
Director is authorized to draw a check on the General Fund for establishing a
change fund in the amount of $400.00 to meet the requirements of the Carroll
Municipal Golf Course Clubhouse, and the Parks and Recreation Director shall
maintain the integrity of such fund. In the same manner and under the same
conditions, the Police Chief is authorized to draw a check on the General
Fund for establishing a change fund in the amount of $75.00 to meet the
requirements of the Carroll Police Department, and the Police Chief shall
maintain the integrity of such fund.



(Ord. 19-02 - Aug. 19 Supp.)



7.04  FUND CONTROL.



There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following: 



1.   Revenues.  All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.



2.   Expenditures.  No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council. 



3.   Emergency Fund.  No transfer may be made from any fund to the
Emergency Fund.



(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])



4.   Debt Service Fund.  Except where specifically prohibited by State
law, moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service
Fund to meet payments of principal and interest.  Such transfers must be
authorized by the original budget or a budget amendment.



(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])



5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund.  Except where specifically
prohibited by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the
Capital Improvements Reserve Fund.  Such transfers must be authorized by the
original budget or a budget amendment.



(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])



6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds.  A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise
Fund may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund and
Road Use Tax Funds, by resolution of the Council.  A surplus may exist only
after all required transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in
accordance with the terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan
agreements relating to the Utility or Enterprise Fund.  A surplus is defined
as the cash balance in the operating account or the unrestricted retained
earnings calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in excess of:



   A.   The amount of the expense of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three (3) months, and



   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to
restricted accounts for the succeeding three (3) months.



(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])



7.   Balancing of Funds.  Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close
of each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.



8.   Recreation Center Trust Fund.  The finance officer shall establish a
Recreation Center Trust Fund, into which all donations and/or funds raised
for the Recreation Center shall be placed.  This fund shall be used for the
improvement of equipment and facilities at the Carroll Recreation Center.



   A.   If there is no purpose identified for the donation or the fund
raiser, all money received shall be placed into the fund and the principal
must be kept intact.  Interest earned on this principal may be expended.



   B.   If there is a purpose identified for the donation or the fund
raiser, both the principal and interest earned may be expended.



7.05  OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.



The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:



1.   Proposal Prepared.  The City Manager is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.



2.   Boards and Commissions.  All boards, commissions, and other City
administrative agencies that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets
must submit their budget proposals to the City Manager for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.



3.   Submission to Council.  The City Manager shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council no later than February 15 of each year.



4.   Council Review.  The Council shall review the proposed budget and
may make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting
such proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.



5.   Notice of Hearing.  Upon adopting a proposed budget the Council
shall set a date for public hearing thereon to be held before March 15 and
cause notice of such hearing and a summary of the proposed budget to be
published not less than ten (10) nor more than twenty (20) days before the
date established for the hearing.  Proof of such publication must be filed
with the County Auditor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])



6.   Copies of Budget on File.  Not less than twenty (20) days before the
date that the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less
than ten (10) days before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available
a sufficient number of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of
taxpayers and organizations, and have them available for distribution at the
offices of the Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])



7.   Adoption and Certification.  After the hearing, the Council shall
adopt, by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the
Clerk shall certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the
County Auditor and the County Board of Supervisors.  The tax levy certified
may be less than, but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed
budget.  Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax
certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])



7.06  BUDGET AMENDMENTS.



A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)



1.   Program Increase.  Any increase in the amount appropriated to a
program must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner
as the original budget.



(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])



2.   Program Transfer.  Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner
as the original budget. 



(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])



3.   Activity Transfer.  Any transfer of appropriation from one activity
to another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council. 



(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])



4.   Administrative Transfers.  The City Manager shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval. 



(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])



7.07  ACCOUNTING.



The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:



1.   Books of Original Entry.  There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received
and disbursed. 



2.   General Ledger.  There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for
recording unappropriated surpluses.   



3.   Checks.  Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Clerk,
following Council approval, except as provided by subsection 5 hereof. 



4.   Budget Accounts.  There shall be established such individual
accounts to record receipts by source and expenditures by program and
activity as will provide adequate information and control for budgeting
purposes as planned and approved by the Council.  Each individual account
shall be maintained within its proper fund and so kept that receipts can be
immediately and directly compared with revenue estimates and expenditures can
be related to the authorizing appropriation.  No expenditure shall be posted
except to the appropriation for the function and purpose for which the
expense was incurred.



5.   Immediate Payment Authorized.  The Council may by resolution
authorize the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due,
which if not paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late
payment or additional interest cost.  Any such payments made shall be
reported to the Council for review and approval with and in the same manner
as other claims at the next meeting following such payment.  The resolution
authorizing immediate payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized
and may include but is not limited to payment of utility bills, contractual
obligations, payroll and bond principal and interest.



6.   Utilities.  The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.



7.08  FINANCIAL REPORTS.



The City Manager shall prepare and file the following financial reports:



1.   Monthly Reports.  There shall be submitted to the Council each month
a report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program
and activity for the preceding month.



2.   Annual Report.  Not later than December 1 of each year there shall
be published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal
year of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit
of the City for the current fiscal year.  A copy of the annual report must
be filed with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)



CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS



 

8.01  Purpose
 
8.06  Applications


8.02  Definitions
 
8.07  Approval


8.03  Period of Partial Exemption
 
8.08  Exemption Repealed


8.04  Amounts Eligible for Exemption
 
8.09  Dual Exemptions Prohibited


8.05  Limitations
 
 



 



8.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from
property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the
new construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.



8.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first
year for which the exemption is received.



2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used
primarily for the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment
to retail outlets.  Distribution center does not mean a building or
structure used primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily
by a manufacturer to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process,
used primarily for the storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail
sale of goods.



3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and
includes new buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to
existing buildings and structures.  New construction does not include
reconstruction of an existing building or structure that does not constitute
complete replacement of an existing building or structure or refitting of an
existing building or structure unless the reconstruction of an existing
building or structure is required due to economic obsolescence and the
reconstruction is necessary to implement recognized industry standards for
the manufacturing and processing of specific products and the reconstruction
is required for the owner of the building or structure to continue
competitively to manufacture or process those products, which determination
shall receive prior approval from the City Council of the City upon the
recommendation of the Iowa Department of Economic Development.



4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of
buildings devoted primarily to research and development activities, including
(but not limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype
products for experimental use and corporate research services that do not
have a primary purpose of providing on-site services to the public.



5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public
warehouse for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the
Code of Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at
retail.



8.03  PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.



The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five (5) years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)



8.04  AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.



The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from
taxation, shall be as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)



1.   For the first year, seventy-five percent (75%) 



2.   For the second year, sixty percent (60%)



3.   For the third year, forty-five percent (45%) 



4.   For the fourth year, thirty percent (30%) 



5.   For the fifth year, fifteen percent (15%)



8.05  LIMITATIONS.



The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of
the new construction added.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)



8.06  APPLICATIONS.



An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value
added for which an exemption is claimed.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)



1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in
which the value added is first assessed for taxation.



2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.



8.07  APPROVAL.



A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction.  If the City
Council resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold
a public hearing thereon.  Thereafter, at least thirty (30) days after such
hearing, the City Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax
exemption for new construction if the new construction is in conformance with
City zoning.  Such prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption
from taxation until the new construction has been completed and found to be
qualified real estate.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)



8.08  EXEMPTION REPEALED.



When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)



8.09  DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.



A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property
tax exemption authorized by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)



CHAPTER 9
URBAN RENEWAL



 



EDITOR’S NOTE


The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.


ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED
 
NAME OF AREA




 

July 6, 1967

 

Central Business District Urban Renewal Project Area





 

October 18, 1971

 

1st Amendment to Urban Renewal Project Area




8502

 

February 25, 1985

 

2nd Amendment to Urban Renewal Project Area




9001

 

February 12, 1990

 

3rd Amendment to Urban Renewal Project Area




9120

 

December 9, 1991

 

4th Amendment to Urban Renewal Areas




9315

 

November 8, 1993

 

Carroll Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area




9706

 

June 23, 1997

 

Farner-Bocken Urban Renewal Area




0014

 

November 13, 2000

 

Meadow Wood Urban Renewal Area




0214

 

November 21, 2002

 

Carroll Urban Renewal Area East




0501

 

January 10, 2005

 

Wittrock Urban Renewal Area




0601

 

March 27, 2006

 

Farner-Bocken Urban Renewal Area Property Deletion




0604

 

September 22, 2006

 

Ashwood Business Park Urban Renewal Area




0703

 

June 11, 2007

 

Westfield Urban Renewal Project Area




0710

 

November 26, 2007

 

Oak Park Subdivision Plat No. 2 Urban Renewal Area




0807

 

June 23, 2008

 

Ace Builders Urban Renewal Project Area




0817

 

October 13, 2008

 

Amended and Restated Central Business District Urban Renewal Project Area




1412

 

November 10, 2014

 

Amended and Restated Central Business District Urban Renewal Project Area




1701

 

January 9, 2017

 

Amended and Restated Central Business District Urban Renewal Project Area




1804

 

August 27, 2018

 

Rolling Hills South Condominiums Urban Renewal Area




1807

 

October 22, 2018

 

Carroll Park Apartments Urban Renewal Area





 


 






 



CHAPTER 10
URBAN REVITALIZATION



 

EDITOR’S NOTE


The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.


ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED
 
NAME OF AREA



8610

 

August 11, 1986

 

Revitalization Area No. 1




9615

 

July 8, 1996

 

Seventh and Simon Urban Revitalization Area




19-01

 

February 25, 2019

 

Carroll Urban Revitalization Area




 



CHAPTER 11
HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX



 

10.01  Definitions
 
10.03  Effective Date


10.02  Tax Rate
 
10.04  Payment of Tax



 



10.01  DEFINITIONS.



Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this
chapter, have the meanings in this section:



1.   “Hotel” and “motel” mean any hotel, motel, inn, public
lodging house, rooming house, mobile home that is tangible personal property,
or tourist court, or any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to
transient guests for rent, whether with or without meals, except the renting
of sleeping rooms in dormitories and in memorial unions at all universities
and colleges in the State of Iowa and the guests of a religious institution
if the property is exempt under Section 427.1, subsection 8, of the Code of
Iowa, and the purpose of renting is to provide a place for a religious
retreat or function and not a place for transient guests generally.



2.   “Renting” and “rent” include any kind of direct or indirect
charge for such sleeping rooms, apartments, or sleeping quarters, or their
use.



10.02  TAX RATE.



A tax is hereby imposed upon the gross receipts from the renting of any and
all rooms, apartments, or sleeping quarters in any hotel or motel as defined
in this chapter at the rate of seven percent of such gross receipts derived
from the renting of a room, apartment, or sleeping quarters while rented by
the same person for a period of not more than 31 consecutive days.



10.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.



The tax herein has been approved by an election at which a majority of those
voting on the question favored the imposition of such tax, and it shall be
imposed on the 1st day of January, 2008, following the notification of the
State Director of Revenue.



10.04  PAYMENT OF TAX.



Such tax shall be paid as is provided in Chapter 423A.2, Code of Iowa, as
amended, and the proceeds of such tax shall be used for the purposes stated
in subsection 4 thereof as follows:



1.   The revenue derived from any hotel and motel tax authorized by this
chapter shall be used as follows:



   A.   The City shall spend at least 50 percent of the revenues
derived therefrom for the acquisition of sites for, or constructing,
improving, enlarging, equipping, repairing, operating, or maintaining of
recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities, including (but
not limited to) memorial buildings, halls and monuments, civic center
convention buildings, auditoriums, coliseums, and parking areas or facilities
located at those recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment
facilities or the payment of principal and interest, when due, on bonds or
other evidence of indebtedness issued by the County or City for those
recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities; or for the
promotion and encouragement of tourist and convention business in the City or
County and surrounding areas.



   B.   The remaining revenues may be spent by the City for any City
operations authorized by law as a proper purpose for the expenditure within
statutory limitations of City revenues derived from ad valorem taxes.



   C.   The City may pledge irrevocably an amount of the revenues
derived therefrom for each of the years the bonds remain outstanding to the
payment of bonds which the City may issue for one or more of the purposes set
forth in paragraph A of this subsection.  Any revenue pledged to the payment
of such bonds may be credited to the spending requirement of paragraph A of
this subsection.



CHAPTER 15
MAYOR



 

15.01  Term of Office
 
15.04  Compensation


15.02  Powers and Duties
 
15.05  Voting


15.03  Appointments
 
 



 



15.01  TERM OF OFFICE.



The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)



15.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:



1.   Chief Executive Officer.  Act as the chief executive officer of the
City and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the
City except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Manager, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments,
their records and to call for special reports from department heads at any
time. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])



2.   Proclamation of Emergency.  Have authority to take command of the
police and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that
a time of emergency or public danger exists.  Within the City limits, the
Mayor has all the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])



3.   Special Meetings.  Call special meetings of the Council when the
Mayor deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.   



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])



4.   Mayor’s Veto.  Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution passed by the Council.  The Mayor may veto an
ordinance, amendment, or resolution within fourteen days after passage. 
However, the Mayor may not veto an ordinance, amendment, or resolution if the
Mayor was entitled to vote on such measure at the time of passage.  The
Mayor shall explain the reasons for the veto in a written message to the
Council at the time of the veto.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])



5.   Reports to Council.  Make such oral or written reports to the
Council as required.  These reports shall concern municipal affairs
generally, the municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for
Council action.



6.   Negotiations.  Represent the City in all negotiations properly
entered into in accordance with law or ordinance.  The Mayor shall not
represent the City where this duty is specifically delegated to another
officer by law, ordinance, or Council direction.



7.   Contracts.  Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on
behalf of the City.



8.   Professional Services.  Upon order of the Council, secure for the
City such specialized and professional services not already available to the
City.  In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in
accordance with the Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State. 



9.   Licenses and Permits.  Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.



10.   Nuisances.  Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.



11.   Absentee Officer.  Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.



15.03  APPOINTMENTS.



At the first meeting of the new Council in January following the regular
municipal election, or at such other times as may be required, the Mayor
shall:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)



1.   Without Council Approval.  Appoint, without Council approval being
required, the following:



   A.   Mayor Pro Tem



2.   Subject to Council Approval.  Appoint, subject to the approval of
the Council, the following:



   A.   Civil Service Commissioners



   B.   Library Trustees



   C.   Building Code Board of Appeals



   D.   Carroll Communications Utility Board of Trustees



   E.   Historical Preservation Commission



15.04  COMPENSATION.



The salary of the Mayor is $400.00 per month.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



15.05  VOTING.



So long as the City is governed by the Mayor-Council form of government
composed of a Mayor and a Council consisting of two Council members elected
at large, and one Council member from each of four wards, the Mayor may vote
to break a tie vote on motions not involving ordinances, resolutions, or
appointments made by the Council alone.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)



CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM



 

16.01  Vice President of Council
 
16.03  Voting Rights


16.02  Powers and Duties
 
16.04  Compensation



 



16.01  VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.



The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])



16.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.



Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties.  In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])



16.03  VOTING RIGHTS.



The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])



16.04  COMPENSATION.



If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of fifteen (15) days or more,
the Mayor Pro Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined
by the Council, based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s
duties and upon the compensation of the Mayor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL



 

17.01  Number and Term of Council
 
17.04  Council Meetings


17.02  Powers and Duties
 
17.05  Appointments


17.03  Exercise of Power
 
17.06  Compensation



 



17.01  NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.



The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of four wards as established by the Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.



17.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:



1.   General.  All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])



2.   Wards.  By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards
based upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or
create new wards. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])



3.   Fiscal Authority.  The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and
order payment thereof.  It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])



4.   Public Improvements.  The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])



5.   Contracts.  The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts.  No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)



6.   Employees.  The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office and compensation of employees or officers not
otherwise provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers.  By ordinance, the
Council shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and
other elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor
does not become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and
the Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of
any elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of
a regular City election.  A change in the compensation of Council members
becomes effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the
Council members elected at the election next following the change in
compensation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



17.03  EXERCISE OF POWER.



The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])



1.   Action by Council.  Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. 
Passage of a motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council.  A
resolution must be passed to spend public funds in excess of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) on a public improvement project, or to accept
public improvements and facilities upon their completion.  Each Council
member’s vote on a measure must be recorded.  A measure that fails to
receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered defeated.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)



2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto.  Within thirty (30) days after the
Mayor’s veto, the Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less
than two-thirds of all of the members of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])



3.   Measures Become Effective.  Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:



   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective
when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.   



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])



   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately
upon signing.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])



   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the
motion by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])



   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and
the Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution
becomes effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment
becomes a law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])



   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective fourteen (14) days after the date
of passage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a
summary of the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the
date of passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the
ordinance or amendment.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])



“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the
Council including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but
does not include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason
of a conflict of interest.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])



17.04  COUNCIL MEETINGS.



Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section 5.06 of
this Code of Ordinances.  Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:



1.   Regular Meetings.  The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.



2.   Special Meetings.  Special meetings shall be held upon call of the
Mayor or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])



3.   Quorum.  A majority of all Council members is a quorum. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])



4.   Rules of Procedure.  The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])



5.   Compelling Attendance.  Any three members of the Council can compel
the attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly
called meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend
at once. 



17.05  APPOINTMENTS.



The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:



1.   City Manager



2.   City Clerk



3.   Police Chief



4.   City Attorney



5.   Planning and Zoning Commission



6.   Zoning Board of Adjustment



7.   Parks, Recreation and Cultural Advisory Board



8.   Airport Commission



17.06  COMPENSATION.



The salary of each Council member is $200.00 per month.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])



CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK



 

18.01  Appointment and Compensation
 
18.08  Records


18.02  Powers and Duties: General
 
18.09  Attendance at Meetings


18.03  Publication of Minutes
 
18.10  Issue Licenses and Permits


18.04  Recording Measures
 
18.11  Notify Appointees


18.05  Publication
 
18.12  Elections


18.06  Authentication
 
18.13  City Seal


18.07  Certify Measures
 
 



 



18.01  APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.



The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve at the
discretion of the Council.  The Clerk shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])



18.02  POWERS AND DUTIES:  GENERAL.



The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of
Ordinances, and the law.



18.03  PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.



Within fifteen (15) days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk
shall cause the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published.  Such
publication shall include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all
receipts and shall show the gross amount of the claims.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])



18.04  RECORDING MEASURES.



The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the
measure was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])



18.05  PUBLICATION.



The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings
and official notices requiring publication as follows:



1.   Time.  If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action
is required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published
at least once, not less than four (4) or more than twenty (20) days before
the date of the election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided
by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3[1])



2.   Manner of Publication.  A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3[2])



18.06  AUTHENTICATION.



The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])



18.07  CERTIFY MEASURES.



The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the
City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)



18.08  RECORDS.



The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:



1.   Ordinances and Codes.  Maintain copies of all effective City
ordinances and codes for public use.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])



2.   Custody.  Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless
otherwise specifically directed by law or ordinance.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



3.   Maintenance.  Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five (5) years except that ordinances,
resolutions, Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption
or replacement of public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least
eleven (11) years following the final maturity of the bonds or obligations. 
Ordinances, resolutions, Council proceedings, records and documents, or
accurate reproductions, relating to real property transactions shall be
maintained permanently.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])



4.   Provide Copy.  Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy
of any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it
may be necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty;
furnish a copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by
Council resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized
officer, affix the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments
that by this Code of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing
of the seal.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])



5.   Filing of Communications.  Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally.  The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in
such communications and petitions.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



18.09  ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.



The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions.  The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct
record of the proceedings of such meetings.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



18.10  ISSUE LICENSES AND PERMITS.



The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt
number, name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose
for which issued.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



18.11  NOTIFY APPOINTEES.



The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



18.12  ELECTIONS.



The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections and nominations in
accordance with Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.



18.13  CITY SEAL.



The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary
or proper to authenticate.  The City seal is circular in form, in the center
of which are the words “CITY OF CARROLL” and around the margin of which
are the words “CITY SEAL – IOWA.”



CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER



 

19.01  Appointment
 
19.03  Duties of Treasurer


19.02  Compensation
 
 



 



19.01  APPOINTMENT.



The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.



19.02  COMPENSATION.



The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of
the Treasurer.



19.03  DUTIES OF TREASURER.



The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   Custody of Funds.  Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds
of the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction. 



2.   Record of Fund.  Keep the record of each fund separate. 



3.   Record Receipts.  Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received. 



4.   Record Disbursements.  Keep an accurate account of all
disbursements, money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what
fund paid. 



5.   Special Assessments.  Keep a separate account of all money received
by the Treasurer from special assessments. 



6.   Deposit Funds.  Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the
Treasurer’s custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in
depositories selected by the Council.



7.   Reconciliation.  Reconcile depository statements with the
Treasurer’s books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash
and investments of each fund and amounts received and disbursed.



8.   Debt Service.  Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record
all payments of interest and principal.



9.   Other Duties.  Perform such other duties as specified by the Council
by resolution or ordinance. 



CHAPTER 20
CITY MANAGER



 

20.01  Purpose
 
20.05  Powers and Duties


20.02  Appointment
 
20.06  Council Relations


20.03  Compensation
 
20.07  Council Reports


20.04  Chief Administrator
 
 



 



20.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the appointment, powers, and
duties of the City Manager.



20.02  APPOINTMENT.



The Council shall, by majority vote of the entire Council at a regular
meeting, appoint a Manager to serve at the discretion of the Council.  Such
appointment must be made on the basis of qualifications and not on the basis
of political affiliation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.6 & 372.13[4])



20.03  COMPENSATION.



The Manager shall receive such annual salary as the Council shall from time
to time determine by resolution.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



20.04  CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR.



The City Manager is the chief administrative officer of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[1])



20.05  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The City Manager shall exercise the following powers and duties:



1.   City Laws.  Supervise enforcement and execution of City laws.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2a])



2.   Council Meetings.  Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused
by the Mayor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2b])



3.   Recommendations.  Recommend to the Council such measures as the
Manager may deem necessary or expedient for the good government and welfare
of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2c])



4.   Supervision.  Supervise the official conduct of all officers of the
City who are appointed by the City Manager, and take active control of the
police, fire, engineering and public works departments of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2d])



5.   Contracts.  Supervise the performance of all contracts for work to
be done for the City, make all purchases of material and supplies, and see
that such material and supplies are received, and are of the quality and
character called for by the contract.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2e])



6.   Property and Improvements.  Supervise the construction, improvement,
repair, maintenance, and management of all City property, capital
improvements, and undertakings of the City, including the making and
preservation of all surveys, maps, plans, drawings, specifications, and
estimates for capital improvements, except property, improvements and
undertakings managed by a utility board of trustees.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2f])



7.   Cooperation.  Cooperate with any administrative agency or board of
trustees.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2g])



8.   Streets and Solid Waste.  Be responsible for the cleaning,
sprinkling, and lighting of streets, alleys, and public places, and the
collection and disposal of waste.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2h])



9.   Licenses and Permits.  Provide for and cause records to be kept of
the issuance and revocation of licenses and permits authorized by City law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2i])



10.   Advise Council.  Keep the Council fully advised of the financial
and other conditions of the City, and of its future needs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2j])



11.   Budget.  Prepare and submit to the Council annually the required
budgets.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2k])



12.   Accounting.  Conduct the business affairs of the City and cause
accurate records to be kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[21])



13.   Financial Reports.  Make to the Council not later than the second
Monday of each month an itemized financial report in writing, showing the
receipts and disbursements for the preceding month.  Copies of financial
reports must be available at the Clerk’s office for public distribution.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2m])



14.   Administrative Assistants.  Appoint administrative assistants, with
the approval of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[3a])



15.   Employees.  Employ, reclassify, or discharge all employees (except
the City Clerk, Deputy City Clerk, City Attorney, and Police Chief) and fix
their compensation, subject to Council approval policies, civil service
provisions and Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[3b])



16.   Appointments.  Appoint or employ persons to fill all places for
which no other mode of appointment is provided, and administer oaths of
office.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[3c and 3b])



17.   Dismissal of Employees.  Suspend or discharge summarily any
officer, appointee, or employee that the Manager has power to appoint or
employ, subject, however to civil service provisions and the provisions of
Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa, except that any administrative assistants to
the Manager shall hold office at the Manager’s discretion.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[3d])



18.   Investigations.  Summarily and without notice, investigate the
affairs and conduct of any department, agency, officer, or employee under the
Manager’s supervision, and compel the production of evidence and attendance
of witnesses.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[3e])



19.   Oaths.  Administer oaths.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[3f])



20.   Operations and Organizations.  Continuously study the City’s
operating procedures, organizations, and facilities and recommend fiscal and
other policies to the Council whenever necessary.



21.   Inform Council.  Keep the Council informed on the progress of its
programs and status of its policies.



22.   Coordination.  Coordinate and direct all municipal services
provided through the various departments.



23.   Planning.  Assist the Council and the Planning and Zoning
Commission in the carrying out of the comprehensive plan and assist in all
other forms of planning within the City government.



24.   Boards and Commissions.  Carry on the management of any present
board or commission if such board or commission is abolished or ceases to
exist.



25.   Other.  Perform other duties at the Council’s direction.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.8[2o])



20.06  COUNCIL RELATIONS.



The City Manager shall not take part in any election for Council Member,
other than by casting a vote, and shall not appoint a Council Member to City
office or employment, nor shall a Council Member accept such appointment.



20.07  COUNCIL REPORTS.



The City Manager shall be directly responsible to the Council for the
administration of municipal affairs as directed by that body.  All
departmental activity requiring the attention of the Council shall be brought
before the body by the Manager and all Council involvement in administration
initiated by the Council must be coordinated through the City Manager.



CHAPTER 21
CITY ATTORNEY



 

21.01  Appointment and Compensation
 
21.05  Review and Comment


21.02  Attorney for City
 
21.06  Provide Legal Opinion


21.03  Power of Attorney
 
21.07  Attendance at Council Meetings


21.04  Ordinance Preparation
 
21.08  Prepare Documents



 



21.01  APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.



The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council.  The City Attorney shall receive such
compensation as established by resolution of the Council.



21.02  ATTORNEY FOR CITY.



The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board.  The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend
all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



21.03  POWER OF ATTORNEY.



The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the
prosecution of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound
upon the same.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



21.04  ORDINANCE PREPARATION.



The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



21.05  REVIEW AND COMMENT.



The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



21.06  PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.



The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Council, any board, or the head of any City department.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



21.07  ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.



The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



21.08  PREPARE DOCUMENTS.



The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES



 

22.01  Public Library
 
22.07  Nonresident Use


22.02  Library Trustees
 
22.08  Expenditures


22.03  Qualifications of Trustees
 
22.09  Annual Report


22.04  Organization of the Board
 
22.10  Injury to Books or Property


22.05  Powers and Duties
 
22.11  Theft


22.06  Contracting with Other Libraries
 
22.12  Notice Posted



 



22.01  PUBLIC LIBRARY.



The public library for the City is known as the Carroll Public Library.  It
is referred to in this chapter as the Library.



22.02  LIBRARY TRUSTEES.



The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of eight resident members and one nonresident member.  All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. 
The nonresident member is to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the County Board of Supervisors.



22.03  QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.



All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents
of the City.  The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide
citizen and resident of the unincorporated County.  Members shall be over
the age of eighteen (18) years.



22.04  ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.



The organization of the Board shall be as follows:



1.   Term of Office.  All appointments to the Board shall be for six
years, except to fill vacancies.  Each term shall commence after City
Council approval of the appointment at the first meeting of the new Council
in January following the regular municipal election, or at such other times
as may be required.  Appointments shall be made every two years of one-third
the total number or as near as possible, to stagger the terms.



2.   Vacancies.  The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if
such member moves permanently from the City.  The position of a nonresident
Trustee shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or
into the City.  The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six (6) consecutive regular meetings of the Board,
except in the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or
County.  Vacancies in the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an
original appointment except that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired
term for which the appointment is made. 



3.   Compensation.  Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services. 



22.05  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:



1.   Officers.  To meet and elect from its members a President, a
Secretary, and such other officers as it deems necessary. 



2.   Physical Plant.  To have charge, control and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.



3.   Charge of Affairs.  To direct and control all affairs of the Library.



4.   Hiring of Personnel.  To employ a Library Director, and authorize
the Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be
necessary for the proper management of the Library, and fix their
compensation; provided, however, prior to such employment, the compensation
of the Library Director, assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and
approved by a majority of the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.



5.   Removal of Personnel.  To remove the Library Director, by a
two-thirds vote of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the
assistants or employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to
duty, subject however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.



6.   Purchases.  To select, or authorize the Library Director to select,
and make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.



7.   Use by Nonresidents.  To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.



8.   Rules and Regulations.  To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.



9.   Expenditures.  To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all
funds allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys
available by gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of
all other moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals
collected under the rules of the Board.



10.   Gifts.  To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or
mixed property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the
title to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills
of sale for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received
by them from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.



11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts.  To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Ch. 661)



12.   Record of Proceedings.  To keep a record of its proceedings.



13.   County Historical Association.  To have authority to make
agreements with the local County historical association where such exists,
and to set apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come
into the possession of the association.  The Trustees are further authorized
to purchase necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and
protection of such articles as are in their judgment of a historical and
educational nature and pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library
purposes.



22.06  CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.



The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:



1.   Contracting.  The Board may contract with any other boards of
trustees of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation,
private or semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning,
township, or County, or with the trustees of any County library district for
the use of the Library by their respective residents. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 & Ch. 28E)



2.   Termination.  Such a contract may be terminated at any time by
mutual consent of the contracting parties.  It also may be terminated by a
majority vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting
parties.  Such a termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors
by the governing body of a contracting party on a written petition of not
less than five percent (5%) in number of the electors who voted for governor
in the territory of the contracting party at the last general election.  The
petition must be presented to the governing body not less than forty (40)
days before the election.  The proposition may be submitted at any election
provided by law which is held in the territory of the party seeking to
terminate the contract. 



22.07  NONRESIDENT USE.



The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of
the City or County in any one or more of the following ways:



1.   Lending.  By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee. 



2.   Depository.  By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents. 



3.   Bookmobiles.  By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so
that books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents. 



4.   Branch Library.  By establishing branch libraries for lending books
or other Library materials to nonresidents. 



22.08  EXPENDITURES.



All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of
the Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library.  Expenditures
shall be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and
Secretary.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 & 392.5)



22.09  ANNUAL REPORT.



The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of
the fiscal year.  This report shall contain statements as to the condition
of the Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount
of fines collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of
the Library during the year, together with such further information as may be
required by the Council.



22.10  INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.



It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear,
deface, mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper,
periodical, book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture or other property belonging
to the Library or reading room.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



22.11  THEFT.



No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with
the intent to deprive the Library thereof.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)



22.12  NOTICE POSTED.



There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices
informing the public of the following:



1.   Failure to Return.  Failure to return Library materials for two
months or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library
materials, or failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after
the date the person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of
intent to deprive the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the
mailing by restricted certified mail of notice that such material or
equipment is overdue and criminal actions will be taken, has been made to
reclaim the materials or equipment. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)



2.   Detention and Search.  Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)



CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION



 

23.01  Planning and Zoning Commission
 
23.04  Compensation


23.02  Term of Office
 
23.05  Powers and Duties


23.03  Vacancies
 
 



 



23.01  PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.



The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of nine members, seven of whom are residents of the
City.  The resident members shall be appointed by the Council and shall not
hold any elective office in the City government.  The additional two members
of the Commission are one member of the County Board of Supervisors, or a
person designated by the Board, and one resident of the area outside the City
over which the zoning jurisdiction of the City has been extended, both
appointed by the County Board of Supervisors.  A person designated by the
Board shall also be a resident of the County in which such extended area is
located.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6, 414.23 & 392.1)



23.02  TERM OF OFFICE.



The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. 
The terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one
year.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



23.03  VACANCIES.



If any vacancy exists on the Commission caused by resignation, or otherwise,
a successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



23.04  COMPENSATION.



All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



23.05  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:



1.   Selection of Officers.  The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations.  The Commission shall adopt such rules
and regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem
necessary.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



3.   Zoning.  The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council
amendments, supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter
414 of the Code of Iowa. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)



4.   Recommendations of Improvements.  No statuary, memorial or work of
art in a public place, and no public building, bridge, viaduct, street
fixtures, public structure or appurtenances, shall be located or erected, or
site therefor obtained, nor shall any permit be issued by any department of
the City for the erection or location thereof until and unless the design and
proposed location of any such improvement shall have been submitted to the
Commission and its recommendations thereon obtained, except such requirements
and recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such
improvement when the Commission after thirty (30) days’ written notice
requesting such recommendations, shall have failed to file same. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



5.   Review and Comment on Plats.  All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivision or re-subdivisions of land embraced in the City or adjacent
thereto, laid out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other
portions of the same intended to be dedicated to the public in the City,
shall first be submitted to the Commission and its recommendations obtained
before approval by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



6.   Review and Comment of Street and Park Improvements.  No plan for any
street, park, parkway, boulevard, traffic-way, river front, or other public
improvement affecting the City plan shall be finally approved by the City or
the character or location thereof determined, unless such proposal shall
first have been submitted to the Commission and the Commission shall have had
thirty (30) days within which to file its recommendations thereon. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



7.   Fiscal Responsibilities.  The Commission shall have full, complete,
and exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of
money appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or
payments that are received by the City for City planning and zoning
purposes. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



8.   Limitation on Entering Contracts.  The Commission shall have no
power to contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended
appropriation as approved by the Council for the present year.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



9.   Annual Report.  The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts,
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



CHAPTER 24
PARKS, RECREATION AND CULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD



 

24.01  Board Created
 
24.05  Attendance


24.02  Purpose
 
24.06  Quorum


24.03  Members
 
24.07  Recording of Proceedings


24.04  Regular Meetings
 
24.08  Length of Terms



 



24.01  BOARD CREATED.



A Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Advisory Board was established on August
25, 2008, as an advisory board to the City Council for the City of Carroll. 



24.02  PURPOSE.



The Board, working closely with the Parks and Recreation Department, will
make recommendations to the City Council concerning parks, recreation and
cultural matters.  The Parks and Recreation Department will provide
recreational and cultural opportunities for all people in the City regardless
of age, and/or skill level.  The Parks and Recreation Department will aim
not only to maintain but to improve all parks, recreational, and cultural
facilities in the City in order to best meet the overall needs of the
community.



24.03  MEMBERS.




The Board shall be composed of no more than nine members and shall be
appointed by the City Council at the first regular meeting in May of each
year or as needed to fill vacant positions.  Members shall be residents of
the City and at least sixteen (16) years of age with two exceptions.  One
opening will be available (not required) to a Carroll Community School Board
member or school administrator when at all possible for them to be
involved.  This position will be appointed by the Carroll Community School
Board and approved by the City Council.  A second opening may (not required)
be filled by a resident of Carroll County, outside the City of Carroll.  A
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected from the members by the
members at its regular May meeting each year.  A City staff member, selected
by the City Manager, shall serve as the secretary.  City staff members shall
have voice but no vote at the meetings.





(Ord. 1603 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




24.04  REGULAR MEETINGS.




Meetings are held at 5:15  PM on the third Monday of January, March, May,
July, September and November.  The Parks and Recreation Department staff
shall prepare an agenda, monthly report of events, along with the minutes
from the proceeding meeting, and shall distribute such no later than four (4)
days prior to each Board meeting.





(Ord. 1603 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




24.05  ATTENDANCE.




It is the duty of each member to attend all meetings.  Three consecutive
absences shall automatically remove the member from the Board. In the absence
of the Chairperson or Vice­ Chairperson, a City staff person shall assume
the duties for that meeting only.





(Ord. 1603 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




24.06  QUORUM.



A quorum shall consist of a majority of the existing membership.



24.07  RECORDING OF PROCEEDINGS.



It is the duty of the secretary to keep a record of all proceedings held at
meetings.  In the absence of the secretary, another member will be appointed
by the Chairperson.  The secretary shall submit minutes of the meeting to
the Parks and Recreation Director to be prepared for the City Council
packet.  These minutes shall be submitted no later than one week following a
meeting.



24.08  LENGTH OF TERMS.




Each Board member shall be appointed for a three (3) year term.  The Council
may appoint three (3) members for a term that expires May 31, 2009, three (3)
members for a term that expires May 31, 2010, and three (3) members for a
term that expires May 31, 2011.  Three (3) members shall be (re)appointed
each year as prescribed in Section 24.03.  Vacancies may be filled by
appointments to fulfill the remainder of the term.  Appointees shall serve
no more than three full or partial consecutive terms.





(Ord. 1603 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




CHAPTER 25
COMMUNICATIONS UTILITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES



 

25.01  Utility Established
 
25.04  Control of Funds


25.02  Appointment of Board
 
25.05  Discriminatory Rates Illegal


25.03  Powers of Board
 
 



 



25.01  UTILITY ESTABLISHED.



The voters of the City of Carroll approved at a special election on February
17, 1998, two propositions:  authorizing the establishment of a municipally
owned broadband cable communications or television system (including video,
voice, telephone, data, and all other forms of communications and cable
communications) utility, and placing the management and control of such
system in a Board of Trustees consisting of five trustees.  Pursuant to said
election and Chapters 364 and 388 of the Code of Iowa, there was established
the Carroll Communications Utility and Carroll Communications Utility Board
of Trustees.  Ordinance 9812 and Resolution 9832 established said Utility
and said Board, both passed by the Council on March 30, 1998.  However, on
October 21, 1998, the Supreme Court of Iowa ruled in the case of Iowa
Telephone Association v. City of Hawarden, docket No. 145/97-83 that a
city’s ordinance containing authority for a telephone utility was
invalid.  This ruling was reconsidered and amended by ruling filed February
17, 1999, holding that any “cable provider” including a municipality is
allowed to provide telephone service as well.  Therefore, the City finds it
necessary and appropriate to reconstitute the Carroll Communications Utility
and Carroll Communications Utility Board of Trustees in their original form
as created by the Council in Resolution 9832 and Ordinance 9812.  The Board
created by Ordinance 9812 and Resolution 9832 and all actions taken by that
Board are ratified and reaffirmed to the fullest extend not inconsistent with
the two law changes.  Ordinances 9828 is repealed.



25.02  APPOINTMENT OF BOARD.



The Mayor shall appoint the Board members, subject to approval of the
Council.  The Council shall by resolution provide for staggered six-year
terms and shall set the compensation for the Board members.  A Board member
appointed to fill a vacancy occurring by reason other than the expiration of
a term is appointed for the balance of the unexpired term.  A public officer
or a salaried employee of the City may not serve on the Utility Board.



25.03  POWERS OF THE BOARD.



The Utility Board may be a party to legal action.  The Utility Board may
exercise all powers of the City in relation to the City Communications
Utility it administers, including but not limited to the power to fix fees
and charges, collect and disburse money, enter into contracts for services,
incur debts, employ and discharge managers and employees and such other
persons as are necessary to carry out the purposes of the Utility.  The
powers of the Board are subject to the following exceptions:



1.   The Board may not certify taxes to be levied, pass ordinances or
amendments, or issue general obligation or special assessment bonds.



2.   The title to all property of the City Communications Utility must be
held in the name of the City but the Utility Board has all the powers and
authorities of the City with respect to the acquisition by purchase,
condemnation or otherwise, lease, sale or other disposition of such property
and the management, control and operation of the same, subject to the
requirements, terms, covenants, conditions, and provisions of any resolutions
authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, pledge orders or other obligations
which are payable from the revenues of the City Communications Utility, and
which are then outstanding.



3.   The Board shall make to the Council a detailed annual report,
including a complete financial statement.



4.   Immediately following a regular or special meeting of the Utility
Board, the Secretary shall prepare a condensed statement of the proceedings
of the Board and cause the statement to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City.  The statement must include a list of all
claims allowed, showing the name of the person or firm making the claim, the
reason for the claim, and the amount of the claim.  Salary claims must show
the gross amount of the claim except that salaries paid to persons regularly
employed by the Utility, for services regularly performed by them, must be
published once annually showing the gross amount of the salary. 



25.04  CONTROL OF FUNDS.



The Utility Board shall control tax revenues allocated to the Carroll
Communications Utility it administers and all money derived from the
operation of the Carroll Communications Utility, the sale of utility
property, interest on investments or from any other source related to the
Carroll Communications Utility.  All Carroll Communications Utility money
received must be held in a separate utility fund, with a separate account or
accounts for each City utility or combined utility system.  Money may be
paid out of the Carroll Communications Utility account only at the direction
of the Utility Board.



25.05  DISCRIMINATORY RATES ILLEGAL.



Carroll Communications Utility may not provide use or service at a
discriminatory rate, except to the City or its agencies, as provided in
Section 384.91, Code of Iowa.



CHAPTER 26
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION



 

26.01  Purpose
 
26.06  Chairperson


26.02  Appointment and Term
 
26.07  Clerk


26.03  Qualifications
 
26.08  Records


26.04  Human Rights Commission
 
26.09  Rooms and Supplies


26.05  Compensation
 
26.10  Powers and Duties



 



26.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the appointment, powers and
duties of a Civil Service Commission in accordance with the requirements of
State law.



26.02  APPOINTMENT AND TERM.



A Civil Service Commission consisting of three members shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council for staggered terms of four years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.1)



26.03  QUALIFICATIONS.



Commissioners must be citizens of Iowa, eligible electors and residents of
the City preceding their appointment.  No person while on said Commission
shall hold or be a candidate for any office of public trust.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.2)



26.04  HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.



Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 26.03, when a human rights
commission has been established, the director thereof shall ex officio be a
member, without vote, of the Civil Service Commission.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.2)



26.05  COMPENSATION.



Civil Service Commissioners shall serve without compensation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.2)



26.06  CHAIRPERSON.



The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among its members.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.4)



26.07  CLERK.



The City Clerk shall be clerk of the Commission.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.4)



26.08  RECORDS.



The Civil Service Commission shall keep a record of all its meetings and also
a complete individual service record of each civil service employee; the
record shall be permanent and kept up to date.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.4)



26.09  ROOMS AND SUPPLIES.



The Council shall provide suitable rooms in which the Commission may hold its
meetings and supply the Commission with all necessary equipment and a
qualified shorthand reporter or an electronic voice-recording device to
enable it to properly perform its duties.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.5)



26.10  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The Commission shall administer the civil service procedure as contained in
Chapter 400 of the Code of Iowa and amendments thereto and shall have,
exercise, and perform all powers and duties as provided thereby. 



CHAPTER 27
AIRPORT COMMISSION



 

27.01  Airport Commission
 
27.05  Bond


27.02  Appointment and Term
 
27.06  Officers


27.03  Vacancies
 
27.07  Powers and Duties


27.04  Compensation
 
27.08  Annual Report



 



27.01  AIRPORT COMMISSION.



There is hereby created an Airport Commission consisting of five members who
are residents of the City.  The control and management of the Arthur N. Neu
Municipal Airport located in Section 34, Township 84 North, Range 34 West of
the 5th P.M., Carroll County, Iowa, shall be vested in the Airport Commission.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)



27.02  APPOINTMENT AND TERM.



Commissioners shall be appointed by the Council for staggered terms of six
years.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)



27.03  VACANCIES.



Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the Council to fill out the
unexpired term for which the appointment was made. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)



27.04  COMPENSATION.



Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)



27.05  BOND.



Each Commissioner shall execute and furnish a bond in the amount of
$5,000.00, and the bond shall be filed with the City Clerk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)



27.06  OFFICERS.



The Commission shall elect from its own members a Chairperson and Secretary
who shall serve for such term as the Commission shall determine.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.20)



27.07  POWERS AND DUTIES.



The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties.



1.   General.  The Commission has all the powers in relation to airports
granted to cities under State law except powers to sell the airport.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21) 



2.   Budget.  The Commission shall annually certify the amount of tax to
be levied for airport purposes, and upon such certification the Council may
include all or a portion of said amount in its budget. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)



3.   Funds.  All funds derived from taxation or otherwise for airport
purposes shall be under the full and absolute control of the Commission for
the purposes prescribed by law, and shall be deposited with the Treasurer or
City Clerk to the credit of the Airport Commission, and shall be disbursed
only on the written orders of the Airport Commission, including the payment
of all indebtedness arising from the acquisition and construction of airports
and the maintenance, operation, and extension thereof.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.21)



27.08  ANNUAL REPORT.



The Airport Commission shall immediately after the close of each municipal
fiscal year, file with the City Clerk a detailed and audited written report
of all money received and disbursed by the Commission during said fiscal
year, and shall publish a summary thereof in an official newspaper.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 330.22)



CHAPTER 28
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION



 

28.01  Purpose and Intent
 
28.03  Structure of the Commission


28.02  Definitions
 
28.04  Powers of the Commission



 



28.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.



The purposes of this chapter are to:



1.   Promote the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of
the public through the recognition, enhancement and perpetuation of sites and
districts of historical and cultural significance;



2.   Safeguard the City’s historic, aesthetic and cultural heritage by
preserving sites and districts of historic and cultural significance;



3.   Stabilize and improve property values;



4.   Foster pride in the legacy of beauty and achievements of the past;



5.   Protect and enhance the City’s attractions to tourists and visitors
and the support and stimulus to business thereby provided;



6.   Strengthen the economy of the City;



7.   Promote the use of sites and districts of historic and cultural
significance as places for the education, pleasure, and welfare of the people
of the City.



28.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Commission” means the Carroll Historic Preservation Commission,
as established by this chapter.



2.   “Historic district” means an area which contains a significant
portion of buildings, structures or other improvements which, considered as a
whole, possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials,
workmanship, feeling and association, and which area as a whole:



   A.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or
method of construction, or represents the work of a master, or possesses high
artistic values, or represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose
components may lack individual distinction; or



   B.   Is associated with events that have made significant
contributions to the broad patterns of our local, state or national history;
or



   C.   Possesses a coherent and distinctive visual character or
integrity based upon similarity of scale, design, color, setting,
workmanship, materials or combinations thereof which is deemed to add
significantly to the value and attractiveness of properties within such area;
or



   D.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our
past; or



   E.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important
in prehistory or history.



3.   “Historic site” means a structure or building which:



   A.   Is associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of our history; or



   B.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in our
past; or



   C.   Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or
method of construction or represents the work of a master, or possesses high
artistic values, or represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose
components may lack individual distinction; or



   D.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important
in prehistory or history.



28.03  STRUCTURE OF COMMISSION.



1.   The Commission consists of five members and one alternate, who are
residents of the City.  The alternate shall vote when a regular member is
absent.  The alternate shall be appointed for three years.



2.   Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Council.  Members shall demonstrate a positive
interest in historic preservation, possessing interest or expertise in
architecture, architectural history, historic preservation, city planning,
building rehabilitation, conservation in general or real estate.



3.   The Commission members are appointed for staggered terms of three (3)
years, from January 1 following the year of such appointment.  Members may
serve for more than one term.  Each member shall serve until the appointment
of a successor.



4.   Vacancies occurring in the Commission, other than expiration of term
of office, shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term of the member
replaced.



5.   Members shall serve without compensation.



6.   A simple majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.



7.   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson who shall preside over all
Commission meetings and elect a Secretary who shall be responsible for
maintaining written records of the Commission’s proceedings.



8.   The Commission shall meet at least three (3) times a year.



28.04  POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.



1.   The Commission may conduct studies for the identification and
designation of historic districts and sites meeting the definitions
established by this chapter.  (The necessary inventory forms and procedures
for their completion are available from the State Bureau of Historic
Preservation.)  The Commission may proceed at its own initiative or upon a
petition from any person, group or association.  The Commission shall
maintain records of all studies and inventories for public use.



2.   The Commission may make a recommendation to the Council, and such
recommendation, along with the Council’s recommendation, may then be
submitted to the State Bureau of Historic Preservation for the listing of an
historic district or site in the National Register of Historic Places.  The
Commission may conduct a public hearing thereon.



3.   The Commission may investigate and recommend to the Council the
adoption of ordinances designating historic sites and historic districts if
they qualify as defined herein.



4.   In addition to those duties and powers specified above, the
Commission may, with Council approval,



   A.   Appoint three of its members to a local design review committee
that shall have the power to review applications for the Linked Investments
for Tomorrow program.  Projects receiving preliminary design review approval
from this committee will be submitted to the State Main Street LIFT Design
Review Board. 



   B.   Accept unconditional gifts and donations of real and personal
property, including money, for the purpose of historic preservation.



   C.   Acquire, by purchase, bequest or donation, fee and lesser
interests in historic properties, including properties adjacent to or
associated with historic properties.



   D.   Preserve, restore, maintain and operate historic properties
under the ownership or control of the Commission.



   E.   Lease, sell and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.



   F.   Contract, with the approval of the government body, with State
or Federal government or other organizations.



   G.   Cooperate with Federal, State, and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.



   H.   Provide information for the purpose of historic preservation to
the Council.



   I.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on
historic properties within its jurisdiction.



CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT



 

30.01  Department Established
 
30.06  Police Chief Appointed


30.02  Organization
 
30.07  Police Chief: Duties


30.03  Peace Officer Qualifications
 
30.08  Departmental Rules


30.04  Required Training
 
30.09  Summoning Aid


30.05  Compensation
 
30.10  Taking Weapons



 



30.01  DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.



The police department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.



30.02  ORGANIZATION.



The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by
the Council.



30.03  PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.



In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)



30.04  REQUIRED TRAINING.



All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of
employment.  Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training
as required by law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])



(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)



30.05  COMPENSATION.



Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.



30.06  POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.



The Council shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 400.13)



30.07  POLICE CHIEF:  DUTIES.



The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval
of the Council. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   General.  Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.



2.   Enforce Laws.  Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and
bring all persons committing any offense before the proper court.



3.   Writs.  Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to
the Police Chief.



4.   Accident Reports.  Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated
to the State Department of Transportation. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)



5.   Prisoners.  Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.



6.   Assist Officials.  When requested, provide aid to other City
officers, boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.



7.   Investigations.  Provide for such investigation as may be necessary
for the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or
ordinance.



8.   Record of Arrests.  Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest and the disposition of
the charge.



9.   Reports.  Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual
report as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or
Council.



10.   Command.  Be in command of all officers appointed for police work
and be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles,
equipment, and materials of the department.



30.08  DEPARTMENTAL RULES.



The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary
for the operation of the department.



30.09  SUMMONING AID.



Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the
arrest.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)



30.10  TAKING WEAPONS.



Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
that are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)



CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT



 

35.01  Establishment and Purpose
 
35.08  Obedience to Fire Chief


35.02  Organization
 
35.09  Constitution


35.03  Membership
 
35.10  Accidental Injury Insurance


35.04  Training
 
35.11  Liability Insurance


35.05  Compensation
 
35.12  Calls Outside the City


35.06  Appointment and Removal of Chief and Assistant Chief
 
35.13  Mutual Aid


35.07  Fire Chief: Duties
 
35.14  Authority to Cite Violations



 



35.01  ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.



A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)



35.02  ORGANIZATION.



The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and
personnel as may be authorized by the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



35.03  MEMBERSHIP.



Any citizen of the City or immediate surrounding area (as determined by
Ordinance No. 9007, adopted March 12, 1990) who is over 18 years of age may
submit a written application to the Fire Chief.  In the event of vacancy in
the department, the Fire Chief shall submit the name of one of the applicants
to the Council for approval.  After said applicant has served a probationary
period of six months, said applicant shall be approved or disapproved by the
members of the department.  Upon approval, said applicant shall be entitled
to compensation and other privileges accorded firefighters.



35.04  TRAINING.



All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])



35.05  COMPENSATION.



Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



35.06  APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF CHIEF AND ASSISTANT.



The Volunteer Fire Department shall submit, from its roster and membership,
to the Council at the Council’s first regular meeting of the year, its
nomination for Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief.  The Council must
approve the nomination and, if approved, the Fire Chief and Assistant Fire
Chief shall serve for a term of one year, unless sooner discharged for cause
by the Council.  The Volunteer Fire Department, with two-thirds approval of
the whole membership of the Council, may remove the Fire Chief or Assistant
Fire Chief by written order, setting out the reasons for removal, which order
shall be filed with the Clerk.  Vacancies in position of Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointment for the unexpired term.



35.07  FIRE CHIEF:  DUTIES.



The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including but not limited to the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   Enforce Laws.  Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire
prevention and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of
fires.



2.   Technical Assistance.  Upon request, give advice concerning private
fire alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.



3.   Authority at Fires.  When in charge of a fire scene, direct an
operation as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue
operation, investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas
leak, or other hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary
in the reasonable performance of the department’s duties.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)



4.   Control of Scenes.  Prohibit an individual, vehicle or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle,
vessel or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the
Fire Department.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)



5.   Authority to Barricade.  When in charge of a fire scene, place or
erect ropes, guards, barricades or other obstructions across a street, alley,
right-of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency
so as to prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of
the Fire Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is
complete, or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)



6.   Command.  Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department.  The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.



7.   Property.  Exercise and have full control over the disposition of
all fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging
to the Fire Department.



8.   Notification.  Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property
damage in excess of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) has occurred as a
result of a fire, or if arson is suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s
Division immediately.  For all other fires causing an estimated damage of
fifty dollars ($50.00) or more or emergency responses by the Fire Department,
file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within ten (10) days
following the end of the month.  The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by
investigation, and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the
fire incidents. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 & 100.3)



9.   Right of Entry.  Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter
any building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the
purpose of making such investigation or inspection that under law or
ordinance may be necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)



10.   Recommendation.  Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)



11.   Assist State Fire Marshal.  At the request of the State Fire
Marshal, and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of
duties by investigating, preventing and reporting data pertaining to fires.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.4)



12.   Records.  Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department
personnel, firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and
apparatus, the number of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and
an analysis of losses by value, type and location of buildings.



13.   Reports.  Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual
report of the status and activities of the department as well as such other
reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.



35.08  OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.



No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.



35.09  CONSTITUTION.



The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated
to accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and
any change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being
effective, must be approved by the Council.



35.10  ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.



The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for
worker’s compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of
hospitalization, nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters
injured in the performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or
outside the corporate limits of the City.  All volunteer firefighters shall
be covered by the contract. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61 and Sec. 410.18)



35.11  LIABILITY INSURANCE.



The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 & 517A.1)



35.12  CALLS OUTSIDE THE CITY.



The Council may contract with other fire districts to provide equipment and
personnel at fires outside the corporate limits at a reasonable charge and
rate.  For calls outside the corporate City limits, the Fire Chief or
officer in charge shall have authority to commit the necessary equipment and
personnel to the incident scene.  It shall be the duty of the Chief or
officer in charge to make arrangements or provisions for adequate equipment
and personnel for response to simultaneous calls within the service district.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])



35.13  MUTUAL AID.



Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter
into mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. 
Copies of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])



35.14  AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.



Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)


Carroll, IA, Iowa Code of Ordinances


CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF
CARROLL, IOWA




© Iowa Codification, Inc.





Copyright Notice





Adopted November 14, 2011, by Ordinance No. 1110




 


Notes

© Iowa Codification, Inc. 
Iowa Codification, Inc.
P. O. Box 141
610 Buddy Holly Place
Clear Lake, Iowa  50428

Copyright Notice 
Materials contained in this Code of Ordinances are based on or quoted
directly from the work entitled Comprehensive Model Code of Ordinances for
Iowa Cities which is protected by copyright.

Permission has been granted by the copyright holder, Iowa Codification, Inc.,
to the City of Carroll, Iowa, to make copies of this Code of Ordinances for
distribution to officials, employees and citizens of the City of Carroll, for
use in carrying out duties and responsibilities of such persons with relation
to the City as may be required or facilitated by such copies.

Reproduction for all other persons is prohibited without the written
permission of Iowa Codification, Inc.



CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE



 

40.01  Harassment
 
40.04  Failure to Disperse


40.02  Disorderly Conduct
 
40.05  Disorderly House/Nuisance Party


40.03  Unlawful Assembly
 
 



 



40.01  HARASSMENT.  (Repealed by Ordinance No. 1307 - Aug. 13 Supp.)



40.02  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.



No person shall do any of the following:



1.   Fighting.  Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public
place or in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that
participants in athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is
reasonably related to that sport.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])



2.   Noise.  Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence
or public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants
thereof. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])



3.   Abusive Language.  Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke
a violent reaction by another.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])



4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly.  Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])



5.   False Report of Catastrophe.  By words or action, initiate or
circulate a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe,
knowing such report to be false or such warning to be baseless.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])



6.   Disrespect of Flag.  Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the
United States, or the state of Iowa with the intent or reasonable expectation
that such use will provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])



7.   Obstruct Use of Street.  Without authority or justification,
obstruct any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent
to prevent or hinder its lawful use by others.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])



8.   Funeral or Memorial Service.  A person shall not do any of the
following within one thousand feet of the building or other location where a
funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within one thousand feet
of a funeral procession or burial:



A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.



B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.



C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.



This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)



(Ord. 1509 – Jan. 16 Supp.)



40.03  UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.



It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or
any of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of
them will commit a public offense.  No person shall willingly join in or
remain part of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to
believe it is such.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)



40.04  FAILURE TO DISPERSE.



A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to
disperse.  No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to
obey.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3) 



40.05  DISORDERLY HOUSE/NUISANCE PARTY.



1.   Definition of Disorderly House/Nuisance Party.  A social gathering
or party that is conducted on premises within the City and that, by reason of
the conduct of those persons in attendance, results in any one or more of the
following conditions or events occurring at the site of the said party or
social gathering, or on neighboring public or private property:  public
intoxication; unlawful consumption of beer, wine, or alcoholic beverages in a
public place; outdoor urination or defecation in a public place; the unlawful
sale, furnishing, dispensing or consumption of beer, wine, or alcoholic
beverages; underage or unlawful possession of beer, wine, or alcoholic
beverages; the open storage, use, sale or consumption of a controlled
substance as defined in Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa; gambling in
violation of Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa; acts of prostitution, pimping,
or pandering as defined in Chapter 725 of the Code of Iowa; the unlawful
deposit of litter or refuse; the damage or destruction of property without
the consent of the property owner; unlawful pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
standing or parking of vehicles in a manner that obstructs the free flow of
traffic on the public streets and sidewalks or that impedes the ability to
render emergency services; unlawfully loud noise; fighting; or any other
conduct or condition that threatens injury to persons or damage to property
is hereby declared to be an unlawful public nuisance.



2.   Duty to Control Premises.  Any person who is an owner, occupant,
tenant, or otherwise has any possessory control, individually or jointly with
others, of any premises and who either sponsors, conducts, hosts, invites, or
permits a social gathering or party on said premises, which gathering or
party is or becomes a public nuisance as defined in subsection 1 above, and
which nuisance is either the intentional result of or within the reasonable
expectations of the person having such possessory control, is deemed to be in
violation of this section.



3.   A party or social gathering that is or becomes a public nuisance as
defined in subsection 1 above shall cease and disperse immediately upon the
order of any officer of the Carroll Police Department; and, all persons not
domiciled at the site of such social gathering or party shall leave the
premises immediately.  Any person who fails or refuses to obey and abide by
such order shall be guilty of a violation of this section.



4.   A violation of this section will constitute a simple misdemeanor with
a scheduled fine of $100.00.  Second and subsequent violations will have a
scheduled fine of $250.00.



CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY



 

41.01  Distributing Dangerous Substances
 
41.08  Antenna and Radio Wires


41.02  False Reports to or Communications with Public Safety Entities
 
41.09  Barbed Wire and Electric Fences


41.03  Providing False Identification Information
 
41.10  Discharging Weapons


41.04  Refusing to Assist Officer
 
41.11  Throwing and Shooting


41.05  Harassment of Public Officers and Employees
 
41.12  Urinating and Defecating


41.06  Interference with Official Acts
 
41.13  Fireworks


41.07  Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators
 
41.14  Police Narcotics Canine



 



41.01  DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.



No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)



41.02  FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.



No person shall do any of the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)



1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire
department, a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity,
knowing that the information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a
criminal act knowing the act did not occur.



2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information
or assistance. 



3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.



41.03  PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.



No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider,
or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that
is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer,
emergency medical care provider, or firefighter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)



41.04  REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.



Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make
an arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required.  No person shall unreasonably and without lawful
cause, refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)



41.05  HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.



No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)



41.06  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.



No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be
a peace officer, emergency medical care provider or firefighter, whether paid
or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution
by any authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any
court.  The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do
not include verbal harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by
a present ability and apparent intention to execute a verbal threat
physically. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)



41.07  ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.



No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings
on premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended
and so accessible to children.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)



41.08  ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.



It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building without written
consent of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])



41.09  BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.



It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of ten (10) acres or more and is used as agricultural land.



41.10  DISCHARGING WEAPONS.



1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.



2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless
manner.



41.11  THROWING AND SHOOTING.



It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns,
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])



41.12  URINATING AND DEFECATING.



It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.



41.13  FIREWORKS.



The use and exploding of fireworks within the City are subject to the
following:



1.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section: 



   A.   "First Class Consumer Fireworks" shall mean the following
consumer fireworks as described in the American Pyrotechnics Association
("APA") Standard 87-1, chapter 3:



      (1)   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes.



      (2)   Chasers.



      (3)   Helicopter and aerial spinners.



      (4)   Firecrackers



      (5)   Mine and shell devices.



      (6)   Missile-type rockets.



      (7)   Roman candles.



      (8)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets.



      (9)   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph "A" that are
manufactured in accordance with APA 87-1, section 3.5.



   B.   "Second Class Consumer Fireworks" shall mean the following
consumer fireworks, as described in APA Standard 87-1, chapter 3:



      (1)   Cone fountains.



      (2)   Cylindrical fountains.



      (3)   Flitter sparklers.



      (4)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including
multiple tube ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in
accordance with APA 87-1, section 3.5.



      (5)   Ground spinners.



      (6)   Illuminating torches.



      (7)   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA 87-1, section 3.2.



      (8)   Wheels.



      (9)   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as
novelties pursuant to APA 87-1, section 3.2.



   "Consumer fireworks" includes first-class consumer fireworks and
second-class consumer fireworks as those terms are defined in section 100.19,
subsection 1 of the Code of Iowa.  "Consumer fireworks" does not include
novelties enumerated in chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association's
Standard 87-1 or display fireworks enumerated in chapter 4 of the American
Pyrotechnics Association's Standard 87-1.



   C.   "Display Fireworks" includes any explosive composition or
combination of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration,
or detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance.  "Display
fireworks" does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association's Standard 87-1.



   D.   "Novelties" includes all novelties enumerated in chapter 3 of
the American Pyrotechnics Association's Standard 87-1, and that comply with
the labeling regulations promulgated by the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission.



2.   Display Fireworks.  It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
any display fireworks; provided the City Council may, upon application in
writing, grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by
municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks and other organizations or
groups of individuals approved by the City when the display fireworks will be
handled by a competent operator.  No permit shall be granted hereunder
unless the operator or sponsoring organization has filed with the City
evidence of insurance in the following amounts.



   A.   Personal Injury:    $1,000,000.00 per person
                $2,000,000.00 aggregate



   B.   Property Damage:   $500,000.00 per building
               $1,000,000.00 aggregate



   C.   Per Occurrence:   $1,000,000.00



   D.   Aggregate:      $2,000,000.00



Violation of this provision, is a simple misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250).



3.   Consumer Fireworks.  It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
First Class Consumer Fireworks and Second Class Consumer Fireworks within the
City limits of Carroll, Iowa.  Violation of this provision, is a simple
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250).



4.   Novelties.  This section does not apply to novelties.



(Ord. 1704 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



41.14  POLICE NARCOTICS CANINE.



It is unlawful for any person to willfully, wantonly, maliciously, or
mischievously harass, torment, tease, frighten or otherwise interfere with
the Carroll Police Narcotics Canine.  A violation of this section will be a
simple misdemeanor resulting in a scheduled fine of $200.00.



CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY



 

42.01  Trespassing
 
42.05  Fraud


42.02  Criminal Mischief
 
42.06  Theft


42.03  Defacing Proclamations or Notices
 
42.07  Other Public Property Offenses


42.04  Unauthorized Entry
 
 



 



42.01  TRESPASSING.  (Repealed by Ordinance No. 1308 - Aug. 13 Supp.)



42.02  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.  (Repealed by Ordinance No. 1308 - Aug. 13 Supp.)



42.03  DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.



It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law
of the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or
by order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



42.04  UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.



No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public.  When
open to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also
constitutes an unauthorized entry.



42.05  FRAUD.  (Repealed by Ordinance No. 1308 - Aug. 13 Supp.)



42.06  THEFT.  (Repealed by Ordinance No. 1308 - Aug. 13 Supp.)



42.07  OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.



The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also
deemed to be public property offenses:



1.   Chapter 22 – Library



   A.   Section 22.10 – Injury to Books or Property



   B.   Section 22.11 – Theft of Library Property



2.   Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling



   A.   Section 105.07 – Littering Prohibited



   B.   Section 105.08 – Open Dumping Prohibited



3.   Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance



   A.   Section 135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices



   B.   Section 135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing



   C.   Section 135.03 – Placing Debris On



   D.   Section 135.04 – Playing In



   E.   Section 135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley



   F.   Section 135.08 – Burning Prohibited



   G.   Section 135.12 – Dumping of Snow



4.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations



   A.   Section 136.10 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements



   B.   Section 136.13 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks



   C.   Section 136.14 – Defacing



   D.   Section 136.15 – Debris on Sidewalks



   E.   Section 136.16 – Merchandise Display



   F.   Section 136.17 – Sales Stands



CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA




(CHAPTER 43 REPEALED BY ORDINANCE NO. 1309 - AUG. 13 SUPP.)




CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION



 

45.01  Persons Under Legal Age
 
45.03  Open Containers in Motor Vehicles


45.02  Public Consumption
 
 



 



45.01  PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE. 



As used in this section, “legal age” means twenty-one (21) years of age
or more.



1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic liquor, wine or
beer in their possession or control; except in the case of liquor, wine or
beer given or dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and
with the knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for
beverage or medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a
physician or dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a
person under legal age may handle alcoholic beverages, wine, and beer during
the regular course of the person's employment by a liquor control license, or
wine or beer permittee under State laws.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])




(Ord. 1409 - Oct. 14 Supp.)




2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age
for the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic
beverage, wine, or beer from any licensee or permittee.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])



45.02  PUBLIC CONSUMPTION.



1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:



   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the
Code of Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of
the Code of Iowa.



   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath,
or urine to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person
using devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.



   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4
of the Code of Iowa.



   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion
of a public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from
kindergarten through grade twelve.



2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon
the public streets or highways.  A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control
license.  A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or
beer on public school property or while attending any public or private
school-related function. 



(Section 45.02 - Ord. 1207 - Oct. 12 Supp.)



45.03  OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.



[See Section 62.01(49) and (50) of this Code of Ordinances.]



(Chapter 45 Renamed by Ord. 1207 - Oct. 12 Supp.)



CHAPTER 46
MINORS



 

46.01  Curfew
 
46.03  Contributing to Delinquency


46.02  Cigarettes, Tobacco, Alternative Nicotine Products and Vapor Products
 
46.04  Discharge of Dangerous or Destructive Devices



 



46.01  CURFEW.



A curfew applicable to minors is established and shall be enforced as follows:



1.   Definition.  The term “minor” means, in this section, any
unemancipated person below the age of eighteen (18) years.



2.   Curfew Established.  It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain
upon any of the alleys, streets or public places or to be in places of
business and amusement in the City at night during the period ending at 6:00
a.m. and beginning:



   A.   At 1:00 a.m. for minors 16 or 17 years of age; and



   B.   At 11:00 p.m. for minors 15 years of age or younger.



3.   Exceptions.  The restrictions provided in subsection 2 of this
section do not apply to any minor in the following exceptional cases:



   A.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor.



   B.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such
minor to take said parent’s place in accompanying said minor.



   C.   When said minor is on the sidewalk of said minor’s residence
or the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor.



   D.   When the minor is present at or is traveling between home or
place of residence and one of the following:



      (1)   Any publicized church, municipal, or school-sponsored
function, including 30 minutes after said function;



      (2)   Any social or civic function or commercial entertainment
for which a gate admission is charged, including 30 minutes after said
function;



      (3)   Minor’s place of employment, including 30 minutes
after the minor’s working hours;



   E.   When the minor is exercising First Amendment rights, provided
the minor has first given written notice to the Mayor that specifies when,
where, in what manner, and for what purpose the minor will be on the public
streets, alleys, parks, or other public places during the curfew period.



4.   Responsibility of Adults.  It is unlawful for any parent, guardian,
or other person charged with the care and custody of any minor to allow or
permit such minor to be in or upon any of the streets, alleys, places of
business or amusement, or other public places within the curfew hours set by
subsection 2 of this section, except as otherwise provided in subsection 3.



5.   Responsibility of Business Establishments.  It is unlawful for any
person operating a place of business or amusement to allow or permit any
minor to be in or upon any place of business or amusement operated by such
person within the curfew hours set by subsection 2 of this section, except as
otherwise provided in subsection 3.



6.   Enforcement.  Any peace officer of the City, while on duty, is
hereby empowered to arrest any minor who violates any of the provisions of
subsection 2 and 3 of this section.  Upon arrest, the minor shall be
returned to the custody of the parent, guardian, or other person charged with
the care and custody of the minor.



46.02  CIGARETTES, TOBACCO, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS AND VAPOR PRODUCTS.



It is unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to smoke, use,
possess, purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.  Possession of
tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or
cigarettes by a person under eighteen (18) years of age shall not constitute
a violation of this section if said person possesses any of these items as
part of the person's employment and said person is employed by a person who
holds a valid permit under 453A of the Code of Iowa and lawfully sells or
offers these products for sale.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)




(Ord. 1407 - Oct. 14 Supp.)




46.03  CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.



It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under eighteen (18)
years of age to commit any act of delinquency.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)



46.04  DISCHARGE OF DANGEROUS OR DESTRUCTIVE DEVICES.



No minor shall discharge any bow, slingshot, gas- or air-operated guns
shooting BBs, darts, or pellets, or any device designed to propel a
projectile or shaft a distance greater than ten (10) feet, except when said
minor is under the direct supervision of an adult or within an area or zone
designated by the Council for related instructional or recreational purposes.



CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS



 

47.01  Purpose
 
47.04  Littering


47.02  Use of Drives Required
 
47.05  Parks Closed


47.03  Fires
 
47.06  Golf Activity Restriction



 



47.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)



47.02  USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.



No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or
roadways therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the
City.



47.03  FIRES.



No fires shall be built, except in a place provided therefor, and such fire
shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be immediately
used by some other party.



47.04  LITTERING.



No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.



47.05  PARKS CLOSED.



No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., except by
special permission of the Council.



47.06  GOLF ACTIVITY RESTRICTION.



No person shall engage in any golf activity at, on, or within any park
facility or any other City-owned or City-leased property except the Carroll
Municipal Golf Course, which is expressly designed for golf activities.



CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE



 

50.01  Definitions
 
50.07  Junk and Junk Vehicles


50.02  Nuisances Enumerated
 
50.08  Nuisances Prohibited


50.03  Other Conditions
 
50.09  Nuisance Abatement


50.04  Building Maintenance
 
50.10  Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice


50.05  Household Goods and Machinery
 
50.11  Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure


50.06  Construction Equipment and Materials
 
 



 



50.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Junk” is defined in Section 51.01(1) of this Code of Ordinances.



2.   “Junk vehicle” is defined in Section 51.01(2) of this Code of
Ordinances.



3.   “Motor vehicle” is defined in Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa,
including motorized bicycles, motorcycles, and all terrain vehicles.



4.   “Nuisance” means whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or
unreasonably offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property so as essentially to interfere unreasonably with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property is a nuisance.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)



5.   “Vehicle” is defined in Section 51.01(3).



50.02  NUISANCES ENUMERATED.



The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)



1.   Offensive Smells.  Erecting, continuing, or using any building or
other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that,
by occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or the public.



2.   Filth or Noisome Substance.  Causing or suffering any offal, filth,
or noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the
prejudice of others.



3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River.  Obstructing or impeding
without legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or
collection of water.



4.   Water Pollution.  Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from
its natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.



5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways.  Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.



6.   Houses of Ill Fame.  Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the
Code of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or
houses where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are
carried on or permitted to the disturbance of others.



7.   Billboards.  Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof.  (See also Section 62.04.)



8.   Storing of Flammable Junk.  Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of
fireproof construction.  (See also Chapter 51.)



9.   Grasses, Weeds, and Brush.  Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush,
or other vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire
hazard.  Grasses and weeds that are allowed to grow on any developed lot to
a height greater than eight (8) inches, grasses and weeds that are allowed to
grow on any undeveloped lot to a height greater than twelve (12) inches, and
any growth of noxious weeds as defined in the Code of Iowa.  This subsection
does not apply to grasses grown as agricultural crops on undeveloped property
or to grasses growing in an area declared by the Council to be a natural
woodlands area.



10.   Dutch Elm Disease.  Trees infected with Dutch elm disease.  (See
also Chapter 151.)



11.   Vermin Harborage.  Conditions that are conducive to the harborage
or breeding of vermin.



12.   Dilapidated Buildings.  Any building or structure that is in such a
dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such
an unsafe or unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of people
residing in the vicinity thereof, or any building or structure defined as a
dangerous or unsafe building in Chapter 145 of this Code of Ordinances.



50.03  OTHER CONDITIONS.



The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:



1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See Chapter 51)



2.   Dangerous Buildings (See Chapter 145)



3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See Chapter 105)



4.   Trees (See Chapter 151)



50.04  BUILDING MAINTENANCE.



Every building shall be maintained to be free from excessively peeling paint
or other conditions suggestive of deterioration or inadequate maintenance. 
Exterior surfaces shall not have any holes or broken glass; loose, cracked or
damaged shingles or siding; or other defects in the exterior finish which
admit rain, cold air, dampness, rodents, insects, or vermin.  Basements,
cellars, and crawl spaces shall be free of standing water and hazards.  All
wood, including floorboards, subfloors, joists, bridging, roof rafters and
sheathing, and all other wood in any interior or exterior floor, wall, roof,
or other part of the structure shall be maintained to be free of cracks
affecting structural integrity, termite damage, infestation, or rot.  Any
and all damaged or deteriorating materials shall be replaced.  If
infestation exists in any basement, cellar, or crawl space, such infestation
shall be remedied in accordance with industry standards.  Violation of this
section is declared to be a nuisance.



50.05  HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND MACHINERY.



No furniture, household furnishings, appliances, or other such items not
designed for outside use and no machinery, implements, or other such
equipment that is in inoperable condition, including component parts thereof,
shall be stored or kept outside for a period of more than twenty-four (24)
hours on any premises in a residential area.  Violation of this section is
declared to be a nuisance.



50.06  CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS.



Operable machinery, equipment, and materials being used for construction
purposes, including pipes, lumber, forms, dirt, sand, and sod, shall not be
stored or kept in the open, except:



1.   For use in the ordinary course of business as the inventory or asset
of a contractor, supplier, or government subdivision; or



2.   On the job site of a project in progress, for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days after construction has been completed or a separate
certificate of occupancy has been issued, whichever occurs first.



Violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance.



50.07  JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES.



It is hereby declared that storage within the corporate limits of any junk or
a junk vehicle upon private property owned or controlled by the owner of the
junk or junk vehicle, unless excepted by Section 51.04 of this Code of
Ordinances, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and
is a nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.  If
any junk or junk vehicle is stored upon private property in violation hereof,
the owner or person in control of the property upon which it is stored shall
be prima facie liable for said violation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])



50.08  NUISANCES PROHIBITED.



The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter
or Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)



50.09  NUISANCE ABATEMENT.



Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section 50.10 of this
chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section 50.11.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



50.10  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.



Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner.  The notice to abate shall
contain: † 2  



   A.   Description of Nuisance.  A description of what constitutes
the nuisance.



   B.   Location of Nuisance.  The location of the nuisance.



   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate.  A statement of the act or acts
necessary to abate the nuisance.



   D.   Reasonable Time.  A reasonable time within which to complete
the abatement.



   E.   Assessment of City Costs.  A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.



2.   Method of Service.  The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



3.   Request for Hearing.  Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may
have a hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists.  A request
for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the
time stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a
nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered.  The hearing will be
before the Council at a time and place fixed by the Council.  The findings
of the Council shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it
shall be ordered abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.



4.   Abatement in Emergency.  If it is determined that an emergency
exists by reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition,
the City may perform any action that may be required under this chapter
without prior notice.  The City shall assess the costs as provided in
subsection 6 of this section after notice to the property owner under the
applicable provisions of subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in
subsection 3.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



5.   Abatement by City.  If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense
incurred.  The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who
shall pay such expenses on behalf of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



6.   Collection of Costs.  The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has
not been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the
County Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same
manner as, general property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement.  If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), the
City may permit the assessment to be paid in up to ten (10) annual
installments, to be paid in the same manner and with the same interest rates
provided for assessments against benefited property under State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)



8.   Failure to Abate.  Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.



50.11  MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.



In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section 50.10, the
requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures applicable
to municipal infractions as set forth in Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.



 


Notes

2 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  A suggested form of notice for the abatement of
nuisances is included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances.  Caution
is urged in the use of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly
where cost of abatement is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to
whether or not a nuisance does in fact exist.  If compliance is not secured
following notice and hearings, we recommend you review the situation with
your attorney before proceeding with abatement and assessment of costs. 
Your attorney may recommend proceedings in court under Chapter 657 of the
Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.



CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES



 

51.01  Definitions
 
51.04  Exceptions


51.02  Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited
 
51.05  Other Exceptions


51.03  Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.06  Notice to Abate



 



51.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other
non-ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles,
machinery and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances;
iron, steel or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware.  Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.



2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle licensed, unlicensed or legally
placed in storage with the County Treasurer, stored within the corporate
limits of the City and which has any of the following characteristics:



   A.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects.  Any vehicle which
has become the habitat for rats, mice, or snakes, or any other vermin or
insects.



   B.   Flammable Fuel.  Any unlicensed vehicle which contains
gasoline or any other flammable fuel.



   C.   Inoperable.  Any motor vehicle, if it lacks an engine or two
or more wheels or other structural parts which render said motor vehicle
unfit for legal use, or which cannot be immediately started and moved under
its own power, as demonstrated by the owner to the police officer.



   D.   Unsafe and/or Unattended.  Any vehicle left unattended up on
blocks, jacks or elevated in any other way which constitutes a threat to the
public health or safety. Any vehicle that has any broken glass or broken or
loose parts, which individually or collectively make the vehicle unsafe or
unfit for legal use or which otherwise constitutes a threat to public health
or safety.



   E.   Storage.  Any vehicle used as storage for items such as rags,
old rope, batteries, paper, trash bags, machinery, mechanical parts, scrap
housing goods, dead plant material or any similar material.



   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition.  Any other vehicle which,
because of its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes
a threat to the public health and safety.



Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.



3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street,
excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks, and includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile,
truck, motorcycle, motor home, camper, tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery,
or any combination thereof.



4.   “Property” means either private or public real property within
the City.



5.   “Unlicensed” means any vehicle which is not displaying a valid
current registration plate(s) as required by the laws of the State.



6.   “Structure” means fully enclosed building that does not allow the
contents to be viewed from the outside (excluding windows).  A structure
does not include a carport, car cover or tarp.



51.02  JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.



51.03  JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.



It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section 51.04, constitutes a threat to the
health and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of
Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.  If any junk or junk vehicle is kept upon
private property in violation hereof, the owner of or person occupying the
property upon which it is located shall be prima facie liable for said
violation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])



51.04  EXCEPTIONS.



The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within a:



1.   Structure.  A garage or other enclosed structure;



2.   Salvage Yard.  An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated
within the City; or



3.   Lawful Business.  Any lawful business within a properly zoned area,
wherein the junk or junk vehicle(s) are necessary to carry out the primary
function of the business.  This would not include junk or junk vehicles that
have not been used for excessive periods of time.



51.05  OTHER EXCEPTIONS.



1.   Race Cars.  Vehicles used for racing, if they are under a fitted car
cover and parked on a concrete, asphalt, or rock/gravel parking area. 
Parking on grass or other areas of the property would be acceptable if the
area is enclosed by a privacy fence of at least six feet.



2.   Vehicles Being Restored and Parts Cars.  Such vehicles are
acceptable if they are under a fitted car cover and parked on a concrete,
asphalt, or rock/gravel parking area.  Parking on grass or other areas of
the property would be acceptable if the area is enclosed by a privacy fence
of at least six feet.  Vehicles being restored must be completed within one
year to qualify for this exception unless an extension is granted by the
Police Chief following a showing of proof that significant progress has been
made toward the restoration.  Parts cars will only qualify for this
exception during the actual restoration of the primary vehicle or during any
granted extensions.



3.   The Police Chief may grant other exceptions in his or her discretion
as long as these exceptions meet the primary intent of this chapter.  Any
such exceptions will be in writing and for a specific period of time.



51.06  NOTICE TO ABATE.



Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section 51.03, the City shall within five (5) days initiate
abatement procedures as outlined in Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])



CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL



 



55.01  Definitions
 
55.09  Rabies Vaccination


55.02  Animal Neglect
 
55.10  Owner’s Duty


55.03  Livestock Neglect
 
55.11  Confinement


55.04  Abandonment of Cats and Dogs
 
55.12  At Large: Impoundment


55.05  Livestock
 
55.13  Disposition of Animals


55.06  At Large Prohibited
 
55.14  Impounding Costs


55.07  Damage or Interference
 
55.15  Pet Awards Prohibited


55.08  Annoyance or Disturbance
 
 




 



55.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.



1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium
including but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag or articulation.



2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)



3.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed
in a veterinary hospital or kennel.



4.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:



   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.



   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.



   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.



   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.



5.   “Fair” means any of the following:



   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair
Board pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted
by a fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.



   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.



   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or
concession booths.



6.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as
defined in Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.



7.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine,
equine, ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as
defined in Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa; or poultry.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)



8.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring
an animal.



9.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained
in a small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to
a rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical
fish, goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.



55.02  ANIMAL NEGLECT.



It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines, in any place, an
animal, excluding livestock, to fail to supply the animal during confinement
with a sufficient quantity of food or water, or to fail to provide a confined
dog or cat with adequate shelter, or to torture, deprive of necessary
sustenance, mutilate, beat, or kill such animal by any means that causes
unjustified pain, distress or suffering.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)



55.03  LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.



It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)



55.04  ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.



A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon the
cat or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person
who will accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or
dog to an animal shelter or pound.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)



55.05  LIVESTOCK.



It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by
written consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s
zoning regulations.



55.06  AT LARGE PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.



55.07  DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.



It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.



55.08  ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.



It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.



55.09  RABIES VACCINATION.



Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal.  It
is unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s
possession, six months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against
rabies.  Dogs kept in State or Federally licensed kennels and not allowed to
run at large are not subject to these vaccination requirements.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)



55.10  OWNER’S DUTY.



It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten
or attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official.  It is the
duty of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health
the existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)



55.11  CONFINEMENT.



If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs.  If the
owner fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall
be apprehended and impounded by such board, and after ten (10) days the board
may humanely destroy the animal.  If such animal is returned to its owner,
the owner shall pay the cost of impoundment.  This section does not apply if
a police service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting
in the performance of its duties has bitten a person.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)



55.12  AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.



Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served
a summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.



55.13  DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.



When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two (2) days after impoundment, if the owner’s
name and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or
other device that is on or part of the animal.  Impounded animals may be
recovered by the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an
unvaccinated dog, by having it immediately vaccinated.  If the owner fails
to redeem the animal within seven (7) days from the date that the notice is
mailed, or if the owner cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall
be disposed of in accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)



55.14  IMPOUNDING COSTS.



Impounding costs are $25.00 for the first day or any part thereof and $15.00
per day thereafter.




(Ord. 1301 - Aug. 13 Supp.)




(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)



55.15  PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.



(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)



1.   Prohibition.  It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or
advertise that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:



   A.   A prize for participating in a game.



   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.



   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.



   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that
includes provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the
pet.



2.   Exceptions.  This section does not apply to any of the following:



   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of
Iowa if the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet
on the premises of the pet shop.



   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of
America; the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with
outdoor recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.



CHAPTER 56
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS



 

56.01  Definitions
 
56.03  Keeping of Vicious Animals Prohibited


56.02  Keeping of Dangerous Animals Prohibited
 
56.04  Seizure, Impoundment and Disposition



 



56.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   "Dangerous animal" means the following animals: † 3



   A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunk and mink;



   B.   Raccoons;



   C.   Bats;



   D.   Scorpions;



   E.   Piranhas.



2.   "Vicious animal" means:



   A.   Any animal which has attacked a human being or domestic animal
one or more times, without provocation while at large;



   B.   Any animal with a history to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals while at large;



   C.   Any animal that has been trained for dog fighting, animal
fighting or animal baiting or is owned or kept for such purposes;




   D.   Any animal trained to attack human beings, upon command or
spontaneously in response to human activities, except dogs owned by and under
the control of the Police Department, a law enforcement agency in the State
of Iowa or of the United States or a branch of the armed forces of the United
States.





(Ord. 1604 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




56.02  KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.



No person shall keep, shelter or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter or harbor such
animal for any purpose or in any capacity within the City.



56.03  KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.



No person shall keep, shelter or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:



1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.



2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large
may be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.  Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted
with a sign containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog” or
words of similar import, and the owner of such premises shall inform the
Mayor or peace officer that a guard dog is on duty at said premises.



56.04  SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.



1.   In the event that a dangerous animal or vicious animal is found at
large and unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way
or the property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to
persons or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or peace
officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured.  The City shall
be under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal
or vicious animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the
owner of such animal prior to its destruction.



2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering or harboring a dangerous animal or vicious animal on premises in
the City, the Mayor or peace officer shall cause the matter to be
investigated and if after investigation, the facts indicate that the person
named in the complaint is keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous or
vicious animal in the City, the Mayor or peace officer shall order the person
named in the complaint to safely remove such animal from the City or destroy
the animal within three (3) days of the receipt of such an order.  Such
order shall be contained in a notice to remove the dangerous or vicious
animal, which notice shall be given in writing to the person keeping,
sheltering or harboring the dangerous animal or vicious animal, and shall be
served personally or by certified mail.  Such order and notice to remove the
dangerous animal or vicious animal shall not be required where such animal
has previously caused serious physical harm or death to any person, in which
case the Mayor or peace officer shall cause the animal to be immediately
seized and impounded or killed if seizure and impoundment are not possible
without risk of serious physical harm or death to any person.



3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal or vicious animal issued by
the Mayor or peace officer  may be appealed to the Council.  In order to
appeal such order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk
within three (3) days after receipt of the order contained in the notice to
remove the dangerous or vicious animal.  Failure to file such written notice
of appeal shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal the order of the
Mayor or peace officer.



4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and
shall be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk.  The
hearing of such appeal shall be scheduled within seven (7) days of the
receipt of the notice of appeal.  The hearing may be continued for good
cause.  After such hearing, the Council may affirm or reverse the order of
the Mayor or peace officer.  Such determination shall be contained in a
written decision and shall be filed with the Clerk within three (3) days
after the hearing or any continued session thereof.



5.   If the Council affirms the action of the Mayor or peace officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning,
sheltering, harboring or keeping such dangerous or vicious animal remove such
animal from the City or destroy it.  The decision and order shall
immediately be served upon the person against whom rendered in the same
manner as the notice of removal.  If the original order of the Mayor or
peace officer is not appealed and is not complied with within three (3) days
or the order of the Council after appeal is not complied with within three
(3) days of its issuance, the Mayor or peace officer is authorized to seize,
impound or destroy such dangerous or vicious animal.  Failure to comply with
an order of the Mayor or peace officer issued pursuant to this chapter and
not appealed, or of the Council after appeal, constitutes a simple
misdemeanor.



 


Notes

3 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter
717F.1, paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and
regulated by the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship. 



CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE



 

60.01  Title
 
60.05  Traffic Accidents:  Reports


60.02  Definitions
 
60.06  Peace Officer’s Authority


60.03  Administration and Enforcement
 
60.07  Obedience to Peace Officers


60.04  Power to Direct Traffic
 
 



 



60.01  TITLE.



Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as
the “Carroll Traffic Code.”



60.02  DEFINITIONS.



Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference.  Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)



1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and
including a highway when fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage thereon
for a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more is occupied by buildings
in use for business.



2.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.



3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or
regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.



4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and
including a highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district,
where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on such a highway for a
distance of three hundred (300) feet or more is occupied by dwellings or by
dwellings and buildings in use for business.



5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including
a highway for a distance of two hundred (200) feet in either direction from a
schoolhouse.



6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in receiving or discharging passengers.



7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.



8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a
vehicle, even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
peace officer or traffic control sign or signal.



9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not
included in the business, school, or residence districts.



10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for
the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.



11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.



60.03  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.



Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



60.04  POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.



A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws.  In the
event of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])



60.05  TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS: REPORTS.



The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation.  A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)



60.06  PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.



A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle
with reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other
manifest of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the
registration certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or
permit of such vehicle.  A peace officer having probable cause to stop a
vehicle may require exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage
card issued for the vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)



60.07  OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.



No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)



CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES



 

61.01  Installation
 
61.04  Standards


61.02  Crosswalks
 
61.05  Compliance


61.03  Traffic Lanes
 
 



 



61.01  INSTALLATION.



The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an
emergency or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to
regulate, guide or warn traffic.  The Police Chief shall keep a record of
all such traffic control devices.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)



61.02  CROSSWALKS.



The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic
control devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is
particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such
other places as traffic conditions require.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)



61.03  TRAFFIC LANES.



The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code.  Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)



61.04  STANDARDS.



Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)



61.05  COMPLIANCE.



No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
unless at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Section 321.231 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)



CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS



 

62.01  Violation of Regulations
 
62.04  Obstructing View at Intersections


62.02  Vehicles on Sidewalks
 
62.05  Loud Motor Vehicle Stereo or Radio


62.03  Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.06  Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes



 



62.01  VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.



Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or
who fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa
statutory laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road
is in violation of this section.  These sections of the Code of Iowa are
adopted by reference and are as follows:



1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.



2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited;
exception.



3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.



4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.



5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.



6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.



7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.



8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.



9.   Section 321.91 – Penalty for abandonment.



10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.



11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.



12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses again title law.



13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.



14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed.



15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired
license.



16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits.



17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.



18.   Section 321.193 – Restricted licenses.



19.   Section 321.194 – Special minor’s licenses.



20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order.



21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card.



22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.



23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain cigarettes or tobacco
products.



24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or
when disqualified.



25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.



26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.



27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.



28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.



29.   Section 321.223 – License inspected.



30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.



31.   Section 321.232 – Radar jamming devices; penalty.



32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles.



33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.



34.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.



35.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.



36.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.



37.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs or signals;
unlawful possession.



38.   Section 321.262 – Damage to vehicle.



39.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid.



40.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.



41.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.



42.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.



43.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.



44.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.



45.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.



46.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.



47.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.



48.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.



49.   Section 321.284 – Open container; drivers.



50.   Section 321.284A – Open container; passengers.



51.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.



52.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.



53.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways;
exceptions.



54.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.



55.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.



56.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.



57.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.



58.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.



59.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.



60.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.



61.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles; distance
requirements.



62.   Section 321.309 – Towing; convoys; drawbars.



63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.



64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.



65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.



66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.



67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.



68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.



69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.



70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.



71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.



72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.



73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.



74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.



75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.



76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.



77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.



78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.



79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working
on highways.



80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.



81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.



82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers approaching blind persons.



83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.



84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal of train.



85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting
warning.



86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.



87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.



88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.



89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.



90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.



91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.



92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.



93.   Section 321.364 – Vehicles shipping food; preventing contamination
by hazardous material.



94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.



95.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.



96.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.



97.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.



98.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.



99.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.



100.   Section 321.372 – School buses.



101.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped
vehicles.



102.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.



103.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.



104.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.



105.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.



106.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.



107.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized
bicycles.



108.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.



109.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.



110.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.



111.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.



112.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.



113.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.



114.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.



115.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.



116.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.



117.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.



118.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.



119.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.



120.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.



121.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.



122.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.



123.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.



124.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.



125.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.



126.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.



127.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.



128.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.



129.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.



130.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front.



131.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.



132.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.



133.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.



134.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.



135.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.



136.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.



137.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.



138.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.



139.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.



140.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.



141.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.



142.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.



143.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.



144.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.



145.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.



146.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.



147.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety regulations.



148.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation.



149.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.



150.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.



151.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles; permits.



152.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.



153.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.



154.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.



155.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.



156.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.



157.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight.



158.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.



159.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.



62.02  VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.



The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.



62.03  CLINGING TO VEHICLE.



No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation.  No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself
or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.



62.04  OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.



It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a
clear view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets.  Any
such obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty
may be abated in the manner provided by Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.



62.05  LOUD MOTOR VEHICLE STEREO OR RADIO.



No person shall operate, in a public place or on any public street, highway,
or alley, a motor vehicle in which a stereo (stereo, tape player, compact
disc player, radio, or any other sound amplification device) can be heard a
distance of 50 feet or more from the vehicle.  The provisions of this
section may be enforced following personal observation/hearing of any police
officer or upon receipt of a complaint made or filed with the Police
Department by the person disturbed by such noise disturbance.  The Police
Chief or the Council may grant a temporary variance to this section to
facilitate special events.  The Police Chief is specifically authorized to
revoke the granted variance if the applicant fails to meet any of the
limitations placed upon the granting of the variance and/or other
circumstances occurring subsequent to the granting of the variance requiring
such revocation.  The scheduled fine for violations of this section shall be
as follows:



First offense            $   50.00



Second offense         $   100.00



Third and subsequent offenses   $   250.00



62.06  ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.



1.   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate, or
cause to be used or operated, within the City any engine brake, compression
brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle, which results in excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle.  Violations of this section will be
considered a non-moving violation.



2.   The usage of an engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical
exhaust device designed to aid in braking or deceleration in such a manner so
as to be audible at a distance of 300 feet from the motor vehicle shall
constitute evidence of a prima facie violation of this section.



3.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section is $100.00.



CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS



 

63.01  General
 
63.02  Minimum Speed



 



63.01  GENERAL.



Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface, and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.



The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically
designated otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone:



1.   Business District - twenty (20) miles per hour



2.   Residence or School District - twenty-five (25) miles per hour



3.   Suburban District - forty-five (45) miles per hour



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)



A speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour in any public park,
cemetery, or parking lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this
chapter, is unlawful.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5], 321.285)



4.   Special Speed Zones.  In accordance with requirements of the Iowa
Department of Transportation, or whenever the Council shall determine upon
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that any speed limit
hereinbefore set forth is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under
the conditions found to exist at any intersection or other place upon any
part of the City street system, the Council shall determine and adopt by
ordinance such higher or lower speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at
such location.  The following special speed zones have been established:



   A.   Eighteenth Street.  Speed limits on Eighteenth Street are as
follows:



      (1)   25 MPH from U.S. 71 to High Ridge Road;



      (2)   35 MPH from High Ridge Road to 1,000 feet east of High
Ridge Road;



      (3)   45 MPH from 1,000 feet east of High Ridge Road to the
east corporation line.



   B.   Grant Road.  Speed limits on Grant Road are as follows:



      (1)   45 MPH from the south corporation line to Carroll County
E37 (Pleasant Ridge Road Extended);



      (2)   35 MPH from Carroll County E37 (Pleasant Ridge Road
extended) to East Anthony Street;



      (3)   25 MPH from East Anthony Street to 260 feet north of
Todd Terrace;



      (4)   35 MPH from 260 feet north of Todd Terrace to Thirtieth
Street, except that the speed shall be 25 MPH when children are present in
the school zone which is located between Thirtieth Street on the north to a
point 185 feet south of the centerline of Elmwood Drive, and such school zone
shall apply to both directions of traffic;



      (5)   45 MPH from Thirtieth Street to 1173 feet north of
Thirtieth Street, except that the speed limit shall be 25 MPH when children
are present in this school zone (which is located between Thirtieth Street
and 1173 feet north of Thirtieth Street).



   C.   Thirtieth Street.  Speed limit on Thirtieth Street is 40 MPH
from North West Street, east to Grant Road, except that the speed limit shall
be 25 MPH when children are present in the school zone which is located
between Grant Road on the east to a point 755 feet east of the centerline of
North West Street, and such school zone shall apply to both directions of
traffic.



   D.   West Street.  Speed limits on West Street are as follows:



      (1)   25 MPH from Bluff Street to 985 feet north of Fairway
Heights;



      (2)   40 MPH from 985 feet north of Fairway Heights to
Thirtieth Street.



   E.   Brookdale Drive.  Speed limit on Brookdale Drive is 20 MPH.



   F.   Deer Creek Lane.  Speed limit on Deer Creek Lane is 20 MPH.



   G.   Bella Vista.  Speed limit on Bella Vista south of Highway 30
to East Anthony is 35 MPH.



   H.   East Anthony Street.  Speed limits on East Anthony Street are
as follows:



      (1)   40 MPH from Bella Vista to 758 feet east of Grant Road;



      (2)   25 MPH from 758 feet east of Grant Road to Grant Road.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290, 321.285)



   I.   Speed limits of U.S. 30 and U.S. 71 shall be as outlined in
Section 140.06 of the Code of Ordinances.



5.   Fines.  Fines for violations of this chapter shall be in accordance
with the Compendium of Scheduled Violations and Scheduled Fines as provided
under Section 805.8A, subsection 5, Code of Iowa.  This paragraph (5), along
with one of the subsections below, shall be included along with the Code
Section (63.01), when issuing citations so as to specifically identify the
violation.



   A.   Speed (1 thru 5 over limit)



   B.   Speed (6 thru 10 over limit)



   C.   Speed (11 thru 15 over limit)



   D.   Speed (16 thru 20 over limit)



   E.   Speed (21 mph and greater over limit)



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285, 805.8A)



63.02  MINIMUM SPEED.



A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)




(Ch. 63 - Ord. 1501 - Feb. 15 Supp.)




CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS



 

64.01  Turning at Intersections
 
64.02  U-Turns



 



64.01  TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.



The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)



1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.



2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the
intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.



3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection.  A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.



The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic
conditions require, that a different course from that specified above be
traveled by vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or
signs are so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or
signs.



64.02  U-TURNS.



It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited at intersections within the business district
and at intersections where there are automatic traffic signals.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])



CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED



 

65.01  Through Streets – Stop
 
65.06  Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk


65.02  Stop Required
 
65.07  Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed


65.03  Four-Way Stop Intersections
 
65.08  Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks


65.04  Yield Required
 
65.09  Official Traffic Controls


65.05  School Stops
 
 



 



65.01  THROUGH STREETS – STOP.



Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated
through streets.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)



1.   U.S. Highway No. 30 from the east corporate limits to the west
corporate limits.



2.   U.S. Highway No. 71 from the north corporate limits to the south
corporate limits.



3.   Clark Street from Grant Road to Sixth Street.



4.   Grant Road from the south corporate limit to Eighteenth Street.



5.   West Street from Sixth Street to Fairway Heights.



6.   Carroll Street from Third Street to Sixth Street.



7.   Quint Avenue from U.S. Highway No. 30 to Twenty-first Street.



8.   Main Street from Timberline Road to Eighteenth Street.



9.   First Street from Main Street to Grant Road.



10.   Third Street from U.S. Highway No. 71 to Carroll Street.



11.   Eighteenth Street from U.S. Highway No. 71 to High Ridge Road.



65.02  STOP REQUIRED.



Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)



1.   Adams Street.  Vehicles traveling on Adams Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – northbound only



   B.   Thirteenth Street



   C.   Twelfth Street



   D.   Fifth Street



   E.   Third Street



   F.   Second Street



2.   Alta Vista Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Alta Vista Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



3.   Amy Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Amy Avenue shall stop at the
following intersections:



   B.   Twelfth Street



4.   Amy Circle.  Vehicles traveling on Amy Circle shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   High Ridge Road – westbound only



5.   Anthony Street. Vehicles traveling on Anthony Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Bella Vista Drive – westbound only



   B.   Grant Road -westbound only



   C.   Main Street – eastbound only



   D.   U.S. Highway No. 71 - westbound only



6.   Applewood Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Applewood Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   West Street – westbound only



   B.   Eighteenth Street – southbound only



7.   Ashwood Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Ashwood Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Lakewood Drive



   B.   Suncrest Drive



   C.   Elmwood Drive



8.   Bass Street.  Vehicles traveling on Bass Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – eastbound only



   B.   Main Street – westbound only



9.   Bella Vista Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Bella Vista Drive shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30



10.   Benjamin Street.  Vehicles traveling on Benjamin Street shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – southbound only



11.   Birch Street.  Vehicles traveling on Birch Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – northbound only



12.   Bluff Street.  Vehicles traveling on Bluff Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   East Street



   B.   Clark Street



   C.   Main Street



13.   Boylan Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Boylan Avenue shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Tenth Street



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – southbound only



14.   Brookdale Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Brookdale Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Pleasant Ridge Road



   B.   Grant Road



(Ord. 1201 - May 12 Supp.)



15.   Burgess Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on burgess Avenue shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – northbound only



16.   Capistrano Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Capistrano Avenue shall
stop at the following street intersection:



   A.   High Ridge Road



17.   Carroll Street.  Vehicles traveling on Carroll Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street



   B.   Seventeenth Street



   C.   Fifteenth Street



   D.   Thirteenth Street



   E.   Twelfth Street – northbound only



   F.   Tenth Street



   G.   Third Street – northbound only



18.   Clark Street.  Vehicles traveling on Clark Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Twelfth Street



   B.   Tenth Street



   C.   Grant Road – eastbound only



19.   Court Street.  Vehicles traveling on Court Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Twelfth Street



   B.   Tenth Street



   C.   Fourth Street – southbound only



   D.   Third Street



   E.   First Street



   F.   Bluff Street



(Ord. 1202 - May 12 Supp.)



20.   Crawford Street.  Vehicles traveling on Crawford Street shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Fifteenth Street – southbound only



   B.   Thirteenth Street



   C.   Tenth Street



   D.   Eighth Street



   E.   Seventh Street



   F.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – southbound only



   G.   Third Street



   H.   Second Street



21.   Crestview Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Crestview Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – southbound only



22.   East Street.  Vehicles traveling on East Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Seventh Street



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 30



   C.   Third Street



   D.   Second Street



   E.   First Street



   F.   Bluff Street



23.   Edgewood Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Edgewood Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street



24.   Eighteenth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Eighteenth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Griffin Road – eastbound only



   B.   Grant Road



   C.   Main Street



   D.   West Street



   E.   Quint Avenue



   F.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – westbound only



25.   Eighteenth Place.  Vehicles traveling on Eighteenth Place shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   West Street – eastbound only



26.   Eighth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Eighth Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



   B.   Court Street



   C.   Main Street



   D.   Adams Street



   E.   Carroll Street



   F.   West Street



   G.   Simon Avenue



   H.   Quint Avenue



   I.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – westbound only



   J.   Clark Street



27.   Eleventh Street.  Vehicles traveling on Eleventh Street shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road



   B.   Clark Street



   C.   Court Street



   D.   Carroll Street



   E.   Main Street – westbound only



   F.   West Street – westbound only



   G.   Adams Street – eastbound only



   H.   Forest Street – eastbound only



28.   Elm Street.  Vehicles traveling on Elm Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Third Street



   B.   Grant Road – eastbound only



29.   Elmwood Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Elmwood Drive shall stop a
the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



30.   Fairway Heights.  Vehicles traveling on Fairway Heights shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   West Street – westbound only



31.   Fifteenth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Fifteenth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Adams Street – eastbound only



   B.   West Street



   C.   Simon Avenue



   D.   Quint Avenue



   E.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – westbound only



32.   Fifth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Fifth Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – eastbound only



   B.   Clark Street



   C.   Court Street – westbound only



   D.   Carroll Street



   E.   Main Street – eastbound only



   F.   West Street – westbound only



33.   First Street.  Vehicles traveling on First Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – eastbound only



   B.   Clark Street



   C.   Main Street



   D.   Carroll Street



   E.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – westbound only



34.   Forest Street.  Vehicles traveling on Forest Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Lakewood Drive



   B.   Suncrest Drive



   C.   Elmwood Drive



35.   Fourteenth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Fourteenth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Adams Street – eastbound only



   B.   West Street



   C.   Simon Avenue



   D.   Quint Avenue – westbound only.



36.   Fourth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Fourth Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Griffith Road – eastbound only



   B.   Bella Vista Drive – westbound only



   C.   Clark Street – eastbound only



   D.   Main Street



   E.   Adams Street – eastbound only



   F.   Carroll Street – westbound only



   G.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – eastbound only



37.   Granada Road.  Vehicles traveling on Granada Road shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



38.   Grant Road.  Vehicles traveling on Grant Road shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street



39.   Harriet Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Harriet Avenue shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Tenth Street – southbound only



   B.   Fifteenth Street



40.   Heires Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Heires Avenue shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – eastbound only



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – westbound only



41.   Hidden Valley Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Hidden Valley Drive
shall stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Pleasant Ridge Road – southbound only



42.   Highland Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Highland Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – southbound only



   B.   Fifteenth Street



43.   High Ridge Road.  Vehicles traveling on High Ridge Road shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – northbound only



   B.   Twelfth Street



   C.   Eighth Street – southbound only



44.   Hillcrest Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Hillcrest Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Main Street – eastbound only



45.   Kittyhawk Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Kittyhawk Avenue shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Market Street



46.   Lakewood Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Lakewood Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



47.   LeClark Road.  Vehicles traveling on LeClark Road shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30, east access road – southbound only



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 30, west access road – southbound only



48.   Lincoln Street.  Vehicles traveling on Lincoln Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 71



49.   Lois Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Lois Avenue shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Main Street – westbound only



50.   Main Street.  Vehicles traveling on Main Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street



51.   Maple Street.  Vehicles traveling on Maple Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30 - northbound only



   B.   Third Street



   C.   First Street



   D.   Anthony Street – southbound only



52.   Marcella Heights Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Marcella Heights
Drive shall stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – eastbound only



53.   Market Street.  Vehicles traveling on Market Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Kittyhawk Avenue – southbound only



54.   McCoy Drive.  Vehicles traveling on McCoy Drive shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Quint Avenue – westbound only



55.   Mockingbird Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Mockingbird Drive shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   High Ridge Road



56.   Meadow Lane.  Vehicles traveling on Meadow Lane shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   South Dale Drive



57.   Monterey Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Monterey Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – southbound only



58.   Nineteenth Place.  Vehicles traveling on Nineteenth Place shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   West Street – eastbound only



59.   Nineteenth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Nineteenth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   West Street – eastbound only



   B.   Quint Avenue – eastbound only



   C.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – westbound only



60.   Ninth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Ninth Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Griffith Road – westbound only



   B.   Clark Street



   C.   Court Street



   D.   Main Street



   E.   Adams Street



   F.   Carroll Street



   G.   West Street



   H.   Crawford Street



   I.   Simon Avenue



   J.   Quint Avenue – westbound only



61.   Oakwood Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Oakwood Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street



62.   Olive Street.  Vehicles traveling on Olive Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Alta Vista Drive



63.   Park View Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Park View Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



64.   Peeble Lane.  Vehicles traveling on Peeble Lane shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Main Street – eastbound only



65.   Perch Street.  Vehicles traveling on Perch Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – eastbound only



66.   Pike Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Pike Avenue shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – northbound only



67.   Plaza Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Plaza Drive shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – southbound only



   B.   Monterey Drive – westbound only



   C.   Bella Vista Drive



   D.   Griffith Road – eastbound only



68.   Putnam Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Putnam Avenue shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30



69.   Pleasant Ridge Road.  Vehicles traveling on Pleasant Ridge Road
shall stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – eastbound only



70.   Prairie View Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Prairie View Drive shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Anthony Street – northbound only



   B.   South Gate Road – southbound only



71.   Primrose Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Primrose Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – northbound only



72.   Quint Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Quint Avenue shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street



73.   Radiant Road.  Vehicles traveling on Radiant Road shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30, East Access Road – northbound only



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 30, West Access Road – northbound only



74.   Randall Road.  Vehicles traveling on Randall Road shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – southbound only



   B.   Todd Terrace



   C.   West Street – westbound only



75.   Salinger Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Salinger Avenue shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – northbound only



   B.   Tenth Street



   C.   Fifteenth Street



76.   Second Street.  Vehicles traveling on Second Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Maple Street



   B.   Clark Street



   C.   Main Street



   D.   Carroll Street



   E.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – westbound only



77.   Seventeenth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Seventeenth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Adams Street – eastbound only



   B.   Birch Street



   C.   West Street



   D.   Quint Avenue



   E.   Salinger Avenue



78.   Seventh Street.  Vehicles traveling on Seventh Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Vine Street



   B.   Grant Road



   C.   Clark Street



   D.   Court Street



   E.   Main Street



   F.   Adams Street



   G.   Carroll Street



   H.   West Street



   I.   Simon Avenue



79.   Simon Avenue.  Vehicles traveling on Simon Avenue shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Seventeenth Street – northbound only



   B.   Tenth Street



   C.   U.S. Highway 30 – southbound only



80.   Sixteenth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Sixteenth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Simon Avenue



   B.   Quint Avenue – westbound only



81.   Sixth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Sixth Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road - eastbound only



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 30 and Crawford Street - eastbound only



   C.   Burgess Avenue - westbound only



(Ord. 1206 -Oct. 12 Supp.)



82.   Skyline Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Skyline Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Lakewood Drive



   B.   Suncrest Drive



   C.   Elmwood Drive



83.   South Gate Road.  Vehicles traveling on South Gate Road shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Main Street – eastbound only



   B.   West Gate Road – eastbound only



84.   South Dale Drive.  Vehicles traveling on South Dale Drive shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   South Gate Road – northbound only



85.   Sun Crest Road.  Vehicles traveling on Sun Crest Road shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



86.   TENTH STREET.  Vehicles traveling on Tenth Street shall stop at the
following street intersections.



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30 - westbound only



   B.   Quint Avenue



   C.   West Street



   D.   Main Street



   E.   Bella Vista Drive - westbound only



   F.   Griffith Road - westbound only




(Ord. 1710 - Sep. 17 Supp.)




87.   Terrace Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Terrace Drive shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street – northbound only



   B.   Seventeenth Street – southbound only



88.   Third Street.  Vehicles traveling on Third Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road



   B.   Clark Street



   C.   Main Street



   D.   Carroll Street



   E.   U.S. Highway No. 71



89.   Thirteenth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Thirteenth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Main Street



   B.   Adams Street



   C.   West Street



   D.   Simon Avenue



   E.   Quint Avenue – westbound only



90.   Timber Creek Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Timber Creek Drive shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Pleasant Ridge Road – northbound only



91.   Todd Terrace.  Vehicles traveling on Todd Terrace shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – eastbound only



   B.   Main Street



92.   Troy Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Troy Drive shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road – westbound only



93.   Twelfth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Twelfth Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   Grant Road



   B.   Main Street



94.   Twentieth Street.  Vehicles traveling on Twentieth Street shall
stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Quint Avenue



95.   Twenty-first Street.  Vehicles traveling on Twenty-first Street
shall stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Main Street – eastbound only



   B.   West Street



   C.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – westbound only



96.   Valley Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Valley Drive shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Clark Street – westbound only



97.   Vine Street.  Vehicles traveling on Vine Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30 – southbound only



98.   Walnut Street.  Vehicles traveling on Walnut Street shall stop at
the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30 - northbound only



   B.   Third Street



   C.   First Street



   D.   Clark Street



(Ord. 1206 -Oct. 12 Supp.)



99.   West Street.  Vehicles traveling on West Street shall stop at the
following street intersections:



   A.   Eighteenth Street



   B.   Fifteenth Street



   C.   Thirteenth Street – northbound only



   D.   Third Street



   E.   West Street – southbound only (south of Thirteenth Street)



   F.   Second Street



100.   Westridge Drive.  Vehicles traveling on Westridge Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Ely Drive



101.   Whitney Street.  Vehicles traveling on Whitney Street shall stop
at the following street intersections:



   A.   Third Street



   B.   First Street



   C.   Second Street



102.   WOODLAND DRIVE.  Vehicles traveling on Woodland Drive shall stop
at the following street intersections.



   A.   Forest Street - westbound only



   B.   High Ridge Road



   C.   Bella Vista Drive




(Ord. 1710 - Sep. 17 Supp.)




103.   K-Mart Access Road.  Vehicles traveling on the K-Mart Access Road
shall stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 30



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 71



104.   Northeast Access Road.  Vehicles traveling on the Northeast Access
Road shall stop at the following street intersections:



   A.   Tenth Street



   B.   Fifteenth Street



105.   Vacated Fourth Street Parking Lots.  Vehicles traveling through
the City-owned vacated Fourth Street parking lots shall stop at the following
street intersections:



   A.   Clark Street – eastbound only



   B.   Court Street



   C.   Main Street – westbound only



   D.   Fourth Street – southbound only



   E.   Adams Street – westbound only



65.03  FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.



Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)



1.   East Street and Bluff Street.



2.   Eighteenth Street and Grant Road.



3.   Eighteenth Street and Main Street.



4.   Eighteenth Street and West Street.



5.   Eighteenth Street and Quint Avenue.



6.   North Carroll Street and Third Street.



7.   North West Street and Fifteenth Street.



8.   Tenth Street and Adams Street.



9.   Tenth Street and Carroll Street.



10.   Thirteenth Street and Adams Street.



65.04  YIELD REQUIRED.



Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)



1.   U.S. Highway No. 71.  Every driver of a vehicle traveling on U.S.
Highway No. 71 shall yield at the following intersections:



   A.   U.S. Highway No. 71 northbound to U.S. Highway No. 30 eastbound
ramp intersection;



   B.   U.S. Highway No. 71 southbound to U.S. Highway No. 30 westbound
ramp intersection.



65.05  SCHOOL STOPS.



At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point ten (10) feet
from the approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop
sign and thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle
shall have passed through such school crossing zone.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)



– NONE –



65.06  STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.



The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the
sidewalk area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when
able to do so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is
entering.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)



65.07  STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.



Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.



65.08  YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.



Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of
a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be,
to yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)



65.09  OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.



Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by
official traffic control signals at the following intersections:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)



1.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North Grant Road;



2.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North Clark Street;



3.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North Court Street;



4.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North Main Street;



5.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North Adams Street;



6.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North Carroll Street;



7.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North West Street;



8.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and North Quint Avenue;



9.   Intersection of U.S. #30 and U.S. #71.



CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS



 

66.01  Temporary Embargo
 
66.03  Load Limits Upon Certain Streets


66.02  Permits for Excess Size and Weight
 
66.04  Load Limits on Bridges



 



66.01  TEMPORARY EMBARGO.



If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets
so designated by such signs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)



66.02  PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.



The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown therefor,
issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or
move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load
exceeding the maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets
or bridges named in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City
and for which the City is responsible for maintenance.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E.1)



66.03  LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.



When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs
at any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)



– NONE –



66.04  LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.



Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving
the bridge, the Police Chief may cause to be posted and maintained signs on
said bridge and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn
drivers of such maximum load limits.  No person shall drive upon said bridge
any vehicle weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)



CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS



 

67.01  Walking in Street
 
67.03  Pedestrian Crossing


67.02  Hitchhiking
 
67.04  Use of Sidewalks



 



67.01  WALKING IN STREET.



Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)



67.02  HITCHHIKING.



No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)



67.03  PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.



Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)



67.04  USE OF SIDEWALKS.



Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.



CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC



68.01  ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.



Upon the following streets and alleys vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])



1.   North Adams Street from West Sixth Street to West Fifth Street shall
be one-way from the north proceeding south, and it shall be unlawful to enter
from the south.



CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS



 



69.01  Park Adjacent to Curb
 
69.08  No Parking Zones


69.02  Park Adjacent to Curb – One-Way Street
 
69.09  All Night Parking Prohibited


69.03  Angle Parking
 
69.10  Truck, Trailer and Boat Parking


69.04  Angle Parking – Manner
 
69.11  Snow Removal


69.05  Parking for Certain Purposes Illegal
 
69.12  Loading Zones


69.06  Parking Prohibited
 
69.13  Controlled Access Facilities


69.07  Persons With Disabilities Parking
 
69.14  Temporary Parking Restrictions


 
 
69.15  Off-street Parking and Storage of Vehicles in Residential Areas and
on Recreational Trails




 



69.01  PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.



No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within eighteen (18) inches of
the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of
angle parking and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



69.02  PARK ADJACENT TO CURB – ONE-WAY STREET.



No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the
direction of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the
vehicle within eighteen (18) inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except
as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



69.03  ANGLE PARKING.



Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



1.   First Street.



   A.   On the north side from Walnut Street to Clark Street;



   B.   On the south side from Maple Street to Clark Street.



2.   Third Street.



   A.   On the north side from Main Street to Carroll Street.



3.   Fifth Street.



   A.   On the north side from Clark Street to Court Street and Main
Street to West Street;



   B.   On the south side from Clark Street to Court Street and from
Main Street to West Street.



4.   Seventh Street.



   A.   On the north side from Main Street to West Street;



   B.   On the south side from Court Street to Adams Street.



5.   Eighth Street.



   A.   On the north side from Adams Street to Carroll Street and Simon
Avenue to Quint Avenue;



   B.   On the south side from Adams Street to 156 feet east of Carroll
Street and from Simon Avenue to Quint Avenue.



6.   Tenth Street.



   A.   On the north side from 140 feet east of Adams Street to Carroll
Street;



   B.   On the south side from 168 feet east of Adams Street to Adams
Street and from Carroll Street to 192 feet west of Carroll Street.



7.   Seventeenth Street.



   A.   On the south side from West Street to Crawford Street.



8.   Nineteenth Street.



   A.   On the south side from Martin Avenue to Highland Drive.



9.   Adams Street.



   A.   On the east side from Bluff Street to First Street and from
Fourth Street to Fifth Street and from Sixth Street to Seventh Street and
from Tenth Street to 84 feet north of Eleventh Street and from 63 feet south
of Seventeenth Street to 153 feet south of Seventeenth Street;



   B.   On the west side from Sixth Street to Seventh Street.



10.   Bluff Street.



   A.   On the north side from Maple Street to Clark Street;



   B.   On the south side from Maple Street to East Street.



11.   Carroll Street.



   A.   From 85 feet north of Fourth Street to Fourth Street – east
side only;



   B.   From Sixth to Seventh Street;



   C.   From Seventh to Eighth Street – east side only.



12.   Clark Street.



   A.   On the east side from 537 feet south of Bluff Street to 437
feet south of Bluff Street and from 205 feet south of Bluff Street to 75 feet
south of Second Street and from 131 feet north of Fifth Street to 171 feet
north of Fifth Street.



13.   Court Street.



   A.   On the east side from Fourth Street to Seventh Street;



   B.   On the west side from Fourth Street to Seventh Street.



14.   Crawford Street.



   A.   On the east side from 120 feet south of Seventh Street to
Seventh Street and from Fifteenth Street to Seventeenth Street.



15.   East Street.



   A.   On the east side from Bluff Street to First Street;



   B.   On the west side from Bluff Street to First Street.



16.   Fourth Street.



   A.   On the south side from Main Street to Carroll Street.



17.   Maple Street.



   A.   On the east side from Bluff Street to First Street;



   B.   On the west side from Bluff Street to First Street.



18.   Main Street.



   A.   On the east side from Third Street to the railroad tracks and
from Fourth Street to 108 feet north of Seventh Street;



   B.   On the west side from Third Street to the railroad tracks and
from Fourth Street to 174 feet north of Seventh Street.



19.   West Street.



   A.   On the west side from Sixth Street to Seventh Street and from
Fifteenth Street to Seventeenth Street.



20.   Vacated Fourth Street (parking areas).



   A.   On the north side from Clark Street to Main Street;



   B.   On the north side from 100 feet west of Main Street to Adams
Street;



   C.   On the south side from Clark Street to Main Street;



   D.   On the south side from 100 feet west of Main Street to Adams
Street.



69.04  ANGLE PARKING – MANNER.



Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings.  When markings are present, all
vehicles shall be parked within the designated spaces, as marked.  Other
than motorcycles, mopeds, or motorized bicycles, no vehicle shall be backed
into a diagonal parking space.  No part of any vehicle or the load thereon,
when said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend
into the roadway more than a distance of sixteen (16) feet when measured at
right angles to the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)



69.05  PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.



No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 24 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



1.   Sale.  Displaying such vehicle for sale;



2.   Repairing.  For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of
such vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency;



3.   Advertising.  Displaying advertising;



4.   Merchandise Sales.  Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in
a duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this
Code of Ordinances.



69.06  PARKING PROHIBITED.



No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:



1.   Crosswalk.  On any portion of a crosswalk at an intersection or any
other location.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])



2.   Center Parkway.  On the center parkway or dividing area of any
divided street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



3.   Mailboxes.  Within twenty (20) feet on either side of a mailbox that
is so placed and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from
vehicles on the roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



4.   Sidewalks.  On or across a sidewalk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])



5.   Driveway.  In front of a public or private driveway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])



6.   Intersection.  Within an intersection or within ten (10) feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])



7.   Fire Hydrant.  Within five (5) feet of a fire hydrant.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])



8.   Stop Sign or Signal.  Within ten (10) feet upon the approach to any
flashing beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the
side of a roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])



9.   Railroad Crossing.  Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a
railroad crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not
exhibiting a red light.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])



10.   Fire Station.  Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to
any fire station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any
fire station within seventy-five (75) feet of said entrance when properly
sign posted.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])



11.   Excavations.  Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])



12.   Double Parking.  On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or
parked at the edge or curb of a street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])



13.   Hazardous Locations.  When, because of restricted visibility or
when standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic,
or when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])



14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings.  A space of fifty (50)
feet is hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre,
auditorium, hotel having more than twenty-five (25) sleeping rooms, hospital,
nursing home, taxicab stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large
assemblages of people are being held, within which space, when clearly marked
as such, no motor vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in
taking on or discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length
of time as is necessary for such purpose.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)



15.   Alleys.  No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and
no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.  No
person shall leave a vehicle parked unattended in an alley, except for the
purpose of actual loading or unloading of merchandise in any alley within the
congested or business area, and under no circumstances shall any vehicle
stop, stand, or park in any business area alley in excess of 20 minutes. 
Vehicles may be permitted to park in any alley in residential areas, provided
that not less than 10 feet of the roadway is left for free movement of
traffic.  The business or congested area as referred to in this subsection
shall be deemed to be that area of the City bounded on the north by Seventh
Street, on the south by Fourth Street, on the east by Clark Street, and on
the west by North West Street.  The provisions of this subsection do not
apply to a vehicle parked in any alley which is 18 feet wide or less,
provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



16.   Bridges.  On any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[12])



17.   Ramps.  In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public
or private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])



18.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line.  That area of the public way
not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line,
where curbing has been installed.



69.07  PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.



Parking for the use by persons with disabilities will be provided for, and
enforced in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 321L of the Code of
Iowa.



69.08  NO PARKING ZONES.



No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace
officer or traffic control signal.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



1.   Adams Street.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Fifteenth to Eighteenth Street - west side only;



      (2)   From Twelfth Street to Thirteenth Street - east side
only;



      (3)   From 155 feet south of Twelfth Street to Twelfth Street
- east side only;




(Ord. 1408 - Oct. 14 Supp.)




   B.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Third Street south to Second Street – east side
only.



      (2)   From 328 feet north of Tenth Street to 35 feet north of
the centerline of Eleventh Street - east side only.




(Ord. 19-05 - Aug. 19 Supp.)




   C.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 35 feet north of Twelfth Street to 25 feet south of
Twelfth Street – west side only;



      (2)   50 feet north of Tenth Street to 25 feet south of Tenth
Street – west side only;



      (3)   25 feet south of Tenth Street to Tenth Street – east
side only;



      (4)   30 feet north of Seventh Street to 30 feet south of
Seventh Street – west side only;



      (5)   25 feet north of U.S. Highway No. 30 to U.S. Highway No.
30.



   D.   "No Parking 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m., 2:30 p.m. to 3:45 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, School Days Only."



      (1)   From the centerline of Tenth Street to 20 feet north of
the centerline of Eleventh Street - east side only.




(Ord. 19-06 - Aug. 19 Supp.)




   E.   "No Parking 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m."



      (1)   From 50 feet north of Tenth Street to the centerline of
Eleventh Street, Monday through Friday - west side only.




(Ord. 19-07 - Aug. 19 Supp.)




2.   Anthony Street – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From East Street to Maple Street – north side only.



   B.   From Maple Street (north leg) to Walnut Street – south side
only.



3.   Bass Street – “No Parking Here To Corner.”



   A.   From 30 feet west of Grant Road to Grant Road – north side
only.



4.   Bella Vista Drive.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From East Anthony Street to Woodland Drive.



   B.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Woodland Drive to Eleventh Street – east side
only.  (This provision will not become effective until:  Bella Vista Drive
and Twelfth Street intersect, or Bella Vista Drive and Eighteenth Street
intersect, or five years after adoption of Ord. No. 0607 (July 10, 2006)
whichever occurs first.



5.   Bluff Street.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Main Street to Clark Street.



   B.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 30 feet east of East Street to 30 feet west of East
Street;



      (2)   From 30 feet east of Clark Street to Clark Street;



      (3)   From 60 feet west of the westerly curb line of Main
Street to Main Street – north side only.



   C.   “No Parking – Loading and Unloading Only.”



      (1)   From 75 feet east of Clark Street to Clark Street –
south side only.



   D.   “No Parking 7:30 a.m. – 8:30 a.m., 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, School Days Only.”



      (1)   From Clark Street to East Street.



6.   Boylan Avenue – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From U.S. Highway 30 to Tenth Street – west side only.



7.   Carroll Street – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Third Street to Second Street – east side only.



8.   Clark Street.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Fourth Street to Fifth Street – east side only;



      (2)   Second Street to 700 feet north of Valley Drive – west
side only, and from 500 feet south of Valley Drive to Grant Road – south
side only;



      (3)   537 feet south of Bluff Street to Grant Road – east
and north sides only;



      (4)   50 feet south of First Street to First Street – east
side only.



   B.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 40 feet south of U.S. Highway No. 30 to U.S.
Highway No. 30 – west side only;



      (2)   30 feet north of Fifth Street to Fifth Street – west
side only;



      (3)   60 feet north of First Street to First Street – east
side only;



      (4)   30 feet north of Bluff Street to Bluff Street – east
side only.



   C.   “No Parking – Loading and Unloading Only.”



      (1)   From 95 feet south of Bluff Street to Bluff Street –
east side only.



   D.   "15 Minute Parking - 2:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday".



      (1)   Parking space (1) beginning 120 feet northerly of the
centerline of Bluff Street - easterly side only.



(Ord. 1808 - Nov. 18 Supp.)



9.   Court Street.



   A.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 40 feet south of U.S. Highway No. 30 to U.S.
Highway No. 30.



   B.   “No Truck Parking.”



      (1)   From Seventh Street to U.S. Highway No. 30 – west side
only.



10.   Crawford Street – “No Parking Here To Corner.”



   A.   From 40 feet north of Seventeenth Street to 20 feet south of
Seventeenth Street – west side only.



   B.   20 feet south of Seventeenth Street to Seventeenth Street –
east side only.



11.   East Street.



   A.   "No Parking This Side."



      (1)   From Eleventh Street to Ninth Street - east side only;



      (2)   From Seventh Street to U.S. Highway No. 30 - west side
only;



      (3)   From Fifth Street to 252 feet north of Fifth Street -
east side only;



      (4)   From Third Street to First Street - west side only;



   B.   "No Parking Here to Corner."



      (1)   From the south curb line of Bluff Street to 105 feet
south of the south curb line of Bluff Street.



      (2)   From 50 feet north of First Street to First Street -
east side only.



   C.   "No Parking Anytime."




      (1)   From Anthony Street to Bluff Street.




         Note:  Off roadway parking on the east side of East Street
in
         this block (Adoration Chapel and St. Anthony Hospital
         Parking) is not included in this restriction.



   D.   "No Parking 7:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday,
School Days Only."



      (1)   The area located from 136 feet north of the centerline
of Bluff Street to 180 feet north of the centerline of Bluff Street - west
side only.



   E.   "30 Minute Parking - 7:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. Monday through
Friday, School Days only."



      (1)   Parking space (1) beginning 180 feet north of the
centerline of Bluff Street ­ West Side only.



   F.   "No Parking Between Signs."



      (1)   From 105 feet north of the northerly curb line of Fifth
Street to a point 224 feet north of the northerly curb line of Fifth Street -
west side only.



(Ord. 1502 - May 15 Supp.)



12.   Eighth Street.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Vine Street to Monterey Drive;



   B.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From 100 feet east of Main Street to Adams Street –
north side only.



13.   Eleventh Street.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Court Street to Main Street - north side only;



      (2)   From East Street to Forest Street - north side only.




(Ord. 1305 - Aug. 13 Supp.)




   B.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 30 feet west of Adams Street to Adams Street –
north side only;



      (2)   From 30 feet east of Main Street to Main Street –
north side only.



14.   Elm Street – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Second to Third Street – west side only.



   B.   From Lenz Lane to north cul-de-sac - east side only.




(Ord. 1401 - Feb. 14 Supp.)




15.   Fifteenth Street.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From 50 feet west of Crawford Street to Crawford Street
– south side only.



   B.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Quint Avenue to West Side – north side only;



      (2)   From West Street to Adams Street – south side only;



   C.   “No Parking Here to Corner.”



      (1)   From 25 feet east of Simon Avenue to Simon Avenue –
south side only.



16.   Fifth Street.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   FromGrant Road to Clark Street – south side only.



      (2)   From Grant Road to Walnut Street - north side only.




(Ord. 1806 - Nov. 18 Supp.)




   B.   “No Parking Here to Corner.”



      (1)   From 70 feet west of the centerline of Adams Street to
the centerline of Adams Street – north side only.



17.   First Street.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Main Street to Clark Street;



      (2)   From U.S. Highway 71 to Whitney Street.



   B.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 30 feet east of East Street to 30 feet west of East
Street;



      (2)   30 feet east of Clark Street to Clark Street.



   C.   “No Parking Between Signs.”



      (1)   From 73 feet, 4 inches west of the west curb line of
Maple Street to 101 feet west of the west curb line of Maple Street – south
side only.



      (2)   From 111 feet, 6 inches west of the west curb line of
Maple Street to 138 feet, 7 inches west of the west curb line of Maple Street
– south side only.



      (3)   From 70 feet, 6 inches west of the west curb line of
Maple Street to 96 feet, 6 inches west of the west curb line of Maple Street
– north side only.



18.   Forest Street – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Eleventh Street, south to the dead end of Forest Street
– east side only.



19.   Fourteenth Street – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Quint Avenue to Simon Avenue – south side only.



20.   Fourth Street.



   A.   “No Parking.”



      (1)   From Adams Street to Carroll Street – north side only.



   B.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 50 feet west of Clark Street to Clark Street –
south side only;



      (2)   From 35 feet east of Main Street to Main Street –
south side only;



      (3)   From 35 feet west of Main Street to Main Street –
north side only;



      (4)   From 50 feet east of Adams Street to Adams Street –
north side only.



21.   Frontage Road (East Gate Plaza) - “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Bella Vista Drive to Monterey Drive.



22.   Granada Road - “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Grant Road to Corey Drive – south side only.



   B.   From Corey Drive to High Ridge Road – north side only.



23.   Grant Road.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Sixth Street to Eleventh Street.



      (2)   From Eighteenth Street to Todd Terrace.



   B.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Fifth Street to Sixth Street – west side only.



      (2)   From Eleventh Street to Eighteenth Street – east side
only.



24.   High Ridge Road.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Eighth Street to Twelfth Street – east side only;



      (2)   From Twelfth Street to Eighteenth Street – west side
only.



   B.   “No Parking Here to Corner.”



      (1)   From 85 feet north of the centerline of Eighth Street to
Eighth Street – west side only;



      (2)   From 185 feet south of the centerline of Woodland Drive
to Woodland Drive – west side only.



25.   Highland Drive – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Thirteenth Street to Fifteenth Street – east side only.



26.   Main Street.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From 125 feet north of Pike Avenue to Thirteenth Street;



      (2)   Anthony Street to Timberline Drive – east side only.



      (3)   From 100 feet south of Eleventh Street to Tenth Street
– west side only.



   B.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 30 feet north of Twelfth Street to 30 feet south of
Twelfth Street;



      (2)   From 30 feet north of Eleventh Street to Eleventh Street
– east side only;



      (3)   From 30 feet north of Tenth Street to 30 feet south of
Tenth Street;



      (4)   From 20 feet south of U.S. Highway No. 30 to U.S.
Highway No. 30;



      (5)   From 40 feet north of Fifth Street to Fifth Street –
west side only;



      (6)   From 65 feet north of the centerline of Fourth Street to
Fourth Street – west side only.



   C.   “No Parking Between Signs.”



      (1)   From 30 feet north of Twelfth Street to 100 feet north
of Twelfth Street – west side only;



   D.   “No Parking – Loading and Unloading Only.”



      (1)   From 31 feet south of the southerly curb line of Third
Street to 54 feet south of the southerly curb line of Third Street – east
side only.



      (2)   From 100 feet north of the northerly curb line of
Eleventh Street to 100 feet south of the southerly curb line of Eleventh
Street – west side only.



   E.   “Two Hour Parking.”



      (1)   From the centerline of Seventh Street to 230 feet south
of the centerline of Seventh Street – east side only.



27.   Maple Street – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From First To Third Street – east side only.



28.   Monterey Drive – “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From U.S. Highway No. 30 north.



29.   Ninth Street -“No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From 1,150 feet east of the centerline of Griffith Road to
1,300 feet east of the centerline of Griffith Road.



30.   Northeast Access Road -“No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Tenth Street to Fifteenth Street.



31.   Pike Avenue – “No Parking Here to Corner.”



   A.   From the east curb line of Main Street to 75 feet east of the
east curb line of Main Street.



32.   Putnam Avenue - “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Highway 30 to Sixth Street.



33.   Quint Avenue – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From U.S. Highway 30 to Tenth Street – east side only.



34.   Salinger Avenue – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Thirteenth Street to Fifteenth Street – east side only.



35.   Second Street – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Main Street to Maple Street – north side only;



   B.   From U.S. Highway 71 to Main Street – south side only.



36.   Seventeenth Street – “No Parking Here To Corner.”



   A.   From 30 feet east of West Street to 30 feet west of West Street.



37.   Seventh Street.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Carroll Street to Simon Avenue - south side only;



      (2)   155 feet east of Court Street to Court Street - south
side only;



      (3)   From Grant Road to Clark Street - north side only;



      (4)   From Vine Street to Grant Road - north side only.



   B.   "No Parking Here To Corner."



      (1)   From 30 feet east of Adams Street to 30 feet west of
Adams Street;



      (2)   From 103 feet east of Grant Road to Grant Road;



      (3)   From 38 feet west of Vine Street to Vine Street.




(Ord. 1306 - Aug. 13 Supp.)




38.   Simon Avenue.



   A.   “No Parking this Side.”



      (1)   From Tenth Street to Sixteenth Street – west side only.



   B.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Sixteenth to Seventeenth Street.



39.   Sixteenth Street.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Crawford Street to Quint Avenue – north side only.



   B.   “No Parking Here to Corner”



      (1)   From the centerline of Crawford Street to 43 feet west
of the centerline of Crawford Street – south side only;



      (2)   From the centerline of Simon Avenue to 43 feet west of
the centerline of Simon Avenue – south side only;



      (3)   From the centerline of Quint Avenue to 43 feet east of
the centerline of Quint Avenue – south side only.



40.   Sixth Street.



   A.   “No Parking this Side.”



      (1)   From U.S. Highway No. 30 and Crawford Street to Quint
Avenue – north side only;



      (2)   From Grant Road west to U.S. Highway No. 30 - south side
only.



      (3)   From U.S. Highway No. 30 and Crawford Street to 305 feet
west of U.S. Highway No. 30 and Crawford Street - south side only.




(Ord. 19-04 - Aug. 19 Supp.)




   B.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Walnut Street west to U.S. Highway No. 30 – south
side only.



41.   Tenth Street.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Main Street to East Street – south side only;



      (2)   From Adams Street to Carroll Street – south side only.



   B.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Main Street to 140 feet east of Adams Street –
north side only;



      (2)   From Highway 30 to Boylan Street.



   C.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 30 feet west of Main Street to Main Street –
south side only;



      (2)   30 feet east of Adams Street to 40 feet west of Adams
Street – south side only;



      (3)   40 feet west of Adams Street to Adams Street – north
side only.



42.   Third Street – “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Grant Road east;



   B.   Grant Road to U.S. Highway No. 71 (exception:  off-street
parking).



43.   Thirtieth Street – “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Grant Road to West Street.



44.   Troy Drive – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Grant Road to High Ridge Road – north side only.



45.   Twelfth Street.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Clark Street to a point 162 feet east of Clark
Street – south side only;



      (2)   From Main Street to Adams Street.



   B.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Adams Street to Carroll Street – south side only;



      (2)   From Main Street to Grant Road – north side only;



      (3)   From Grant Road to High Ridge Road – south side only.



   C.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From Main Street to 30 feet west of Main Street –
north side only;



      (2)   From 30 feet east of Adams Street to Adams Street –
north side only;



46.   Valley Drive.



   A.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Walnut Street to Maple Street.



   B.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Maple Street to Clark Street – north side only.



47.   Walnut Street.



   A.   "No Parking This Side."



      (1)   From Fifth Street to U.S. Highway 30 - west side only.



      (2)   From First to Third Street - west side only.



      (3)   From Bluff Street to S. Clark Street - east side only.



   B.   "No Parking Anytime."



      (1)   From Anthony Street to Bluff Street.



(Ord. 1503 - May 15 Supp.)



48.   West Street.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Fairway Heights north 1,000 feet – east side only;



      (2)   From Seventeenth Street to Thirteenth Street – east
side only;



      (3)   From Eleventh Street to Seventh Street – east side
only.



   B.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From Eighteenth Street to Seventeenth Street;



      (2)   From Thirteenth Street to Eleventh Street.



   C.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From 74 feet south of the south curb line of Fifteenth
Street to Fifteenth Street – west side only.



   D.   "No Parking 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m., 2:30 p.m. to 3:45 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, School Days Only."



      (1)   From the centerline of Fifteenth Street to 274 feet
north of the centerline of Fifteenth Street - west side only.




(Ord. 1601 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




49.   Woodland Drive.



   A.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From High Ridge Road to Bella Vista Drive – south side
only.



   B.   “No Parking Here To Corner.”



      (1)   From the centerline of High Ridge Road to a point 100
feet east of the centerline of High Ridge Road – north side only.



50.   U.S. Highway No. 30.



   A.   “No Parking On Pavement.”



      (1)   From the east City limits to west City limits.



   B.   “No Parking On Shoulder.”



      (1)   From 100 feet east of Vine Street to 600 feet east of
Vine Street – south side only;



      (2)   U.S. Highway No. 30 and 71 Junction to 500 feet west of
Heires Avenue – south side only.



   C.   “No Parking Anytime.”



      (1)   From 100 feet east of Vine Street to 70 feet west of
Vine Street – south side only;



      (2)   Court Street to West Street;



      (3)   Crawford Street to West Street – south side only;



      (4)   U.S. Highway No. 30 and 71 Junction to Heires Avenue –
north side only.



   D.   “No Parking This Side.”



      (1)   From Court Street to Clark Street – south side only.



51.   U.S. Highway No. 71 – “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Fifteenth Street to the north City limits;



   B.   Lincoln Street to Third Street;



   C.   Third Street to 125 feet south of First Street.



52.   Eighteenth Street – “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Grant Road east to High Ridge Road;



   B.   On the north side from Highway 71 North to North Main Street.



53.   Plaza Drive – “No Parking This Side.”



   A.   From Vine Street to 629 feet east – south side only.



54.   Randall Road - “No Parking Anytime.”



   A.   From Eighteenth Street to 525 feet north of Eighteenth Street
– east side only;



   B.   From 185 feet north of Eighteenth Street to 525 feet north of
Eighteenth Street – west side only.



69.09  ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.



No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall park
a vehicle on any of the following named streets for a period of time longer
than thirty (30) minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any
day.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])



1.   Fourth Street from Main Street to Court Street.



2.   Fifth Street from Court Street to Carroll Street.



3.   Carroll Street from Fourth Street to Seventh Street.



4.   Adams Street from Fourth Street to Seventh Street.



5.   Main Street from Fourth Street to Sixth Street.



6.   Court Street from Fourth Street to Sixth Street.



69.10  TRUCK, TRAILER AND BOAT PARKING.



1.   No person shall park a motor truck having a freight capacity greater
than one ton or any tractor-trailer, semi-trailer, truck tractor unit,
tractor, road tractor, boat, camper, recreational vehicle, motor home,
trailer (any size or type), or equipment of any type at any time upon any
portion of any street or alley in the City except for such reasonable time as
may be necessary to load or unload passengers, freight, or other merchandise.



2.   No person shall park any non-licensed construction equipment upon any
portion of any street or alley in the City, except while actively using the
equipment during normal working hours.



3.   No person shall stand or park any other vehicle or combination of
attached vehicles/trailers having an overall length of more than 16 feet or a
total overall width of more than 76 inches upon any portion of any street or
alley in the City, except for such reasonable time as may be necessary to
load or unload passengers, freight, or other merchandise, or mechanical
breakdown, in which event repairs shall be completed as expediently as
conditions permit.



69.11  SNOW REMOVAL.



All motor vehicles and vehicles of any other kind shall be removed from the
streets (other than in the commercial districts) during any time when snow
removal operations are in progress and before such operations have resulted
in the removal or clearance of snow from the City streets.  Any peace
officer, either alone or in conjunction with a member of the Department of
Public Works, may direct all motor vehicles of any kind to be removed from
City streets.  This procedure shall take place any time when snow removal
operations are in progress and before such operations have resulted in the
removal or clearance of snow from such street.  The vehicles shall be
removed and not left standing or parked on the streets, as provided above, in
order to facilitate snow removal.  Snow removal shall include the action of
any and all snow equipment necessary to remove snow from the City street to
provide access and proper use of said streets.  Vehicles left standing or
parked in violation of this chapter may be impounded pursuant to the
provisions of Section 70.06 with the cost of towing and storage being
assessed to the owners.  Vehicles left standing or parked in violation of
this section shall be fined in accordance with the provisions of Section
70.03.



69.12  LOADING ZONES.



Vehicles from which items are being loaded or unloaded shall not be parked
longer than one hundred twenty (120) minutes (2 hours) in any parking area
provided for the use of loading and unloading as follows:



1.   Carroll Street.



   A.   West Side.  From a point 54 feet south of the centerline line
of Seventh Street to 86 feet south of the centerline of Seventh Street.



2.   Third Street.



   A.   North Side.  From a point 122 feet 6 inches west of the west
curb line of North Main Street to a point 170 feet 6 inches west of the west
curb line of North Main Street.



3.   Fourth Street Parking Areas.



   A.   North Side.  From a point 67 feet east of the east curb line
of North Court Street to a point 111 feet east of the east curb line of North
Court Street.



   B.   North Side.  From a point 77 feet 8 inches east of the east
curb line of North Adams Street to a point 99 feet east of the east curb line
of North Adams Street.



4.   Fifth Street.  200 Block West, north side, westerly most parking
space.




(Ord. 1406 - Oct. 14 Supp.)




69.13  CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.



Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.



69.14  TEMPORARY PARKING RESTRICTIONS.



The Police Chief is hereby authorized to establish temporary parking
restrictions on all streets, alleys, and City-owned parking lots for special
events, construction projects, and at other times as said official deems
necessary.  The Police Chief shall erect or cause to be erected appropriate
signs giving notice thereof, and no such temporary restriction shall be
effective unless signs are erected and in place at the time of the alleged
offense.  When the signs are so erected, giving notice of the temporary
parking restrictions, no person shall disobey the restrictions states on such
signs.



69.15  OFF-STREET PARKING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND
ON RECREATIONAL TRAILS.



1.   Definitions.  For use in this section, the following terms are
defined:



   A.   All-weather surface: shall mean an asphalt, Portland cement
concrete, turf blocks, or brick pavers of sufficient thickness to adequately
support motor vehicles.



   B.   Front Yard Area: shall mean all that area between the front
property line and a line drawn along the front face or faces of the primary
structure on the property and extended to the side property lines.



   C.   Hike/Bike Trail (recreational trails): shall mean any eight (8)
foot or wider paved trail constructed by the City of Carroll for walking,
biking and other recreational purposes.



   D.   Motor Vehicle and Vehicles shall mean any motor vehicle as
defined in Iowa Code, Chapter 321.1, or other vehicles, including the
following:



      All-terrain Vehicles



      Fifth-Wheel Travel Trailer



      Motorized Bicycle



      Motorcycle



      Motor home



      Tractors or farm machinery



      Travel trailer



      Trailer



      Watercraft (any type)



   E.   Side Yard Corner Lots: shall mean the yard area adjacent to the
street right-of-way on a corner lot extending from the front yard along the
side of the structure to the rear property line.



   F.   Side Yard: shall mean the yard area adjacent to the residential
structure, but not adjacent to the street right-of-way, extending from the
front yard along the side of the structure to the rear property line.



2.   Prohibited Parking.



No person shall cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside parking and
storage of vehicles on property used for residential purposes and/or on
residentially zoned property unless it complies with the following
requirements:



Front yard or side yard, corner lots: Vehicles which are parked or stored
outside in any front yard, or any side yard of corner lot areas must be on an
all-weather surface driveway which shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of
the front yard of any lot or the side yard of a corner lot.  Driveways
exceeding forty percent (40%) of the front yard of any lot or the side yard
of a corner lot prior to the adoption of this section are exempt provided no
additional surface area is added.  This provision, however, shall not
prevent the construction of hard surface paving to access the garage(s) for
multiple attached dwellings, provided the design is approved by City building
officials.



Exceptions: During emergency snow removal operations (when snow ordinance is
in effect), vehicles may be parked in a manner whereas the entire vehicle may
be parked in any portion of a residentially zoned property or any property
used for residential purposes.  Said vehicles must then be moved to normal
parking (all-weather surface) within twenty-four (24) hours following the
cancellation of the snow ordinance.



Side yards: Parking of all vehicles, including licensed and operable
vehicles, must be parked in a permanent roofed structure or on an all-weather
surface when parked in a side yard.  Such all-weather surface in a side-yard
must be connected to a driveway leading from an approved curb drop or
entrance which also consists of an all-weather surface.  The vehicle wheels
and any component touching the ground must be located entirely on, and
directly above the appropriate surface.



Rear yards: Parking for recreational vehicles, travel trailers, trailers,
boats, snowmobiles, and other such recreational vehicles may occur on grass
surfaces in rear yards.



Recreational Trails: No person shall cause the parking of vehicles on any
recreational trails.



Declaration of Nuisance. The outside parking and storage of motor vehicles
and vehicles as defined above, on property used for residential purposes
and/or residentially zoned property, in violation of the requirements set
forth in this section, is declared to be a public nuisance because it (a)
obstructs views on streets and private property, (b) creates cluttered and
otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents full use of residential streets for
residential parking, (d) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants'
enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (e) otherwise adversely
affects property values and neighborhood patterns.  Any violation of this
section may be abated in the manner provided for in Chapter 50, Code of
Ordinances or Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa, or may be enforced under
Chapter 4, Municipal Infractions, Code of Ordinances.



The violation may also be enforceable with a parking ticket, with a simple
notice of fine of $10.00.




(Ord. 1404 - Jul. 14 Supp.)




CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES



 

70.01  Arrest or Citation
 
70.04  Parking Violations:  Vehicle Unattended


70.02  Scheduled Violations
 
70.05  Presumption in Reference to Illegal Parking


70.03  Parking Violations:  Alternate
 
70.06  Impounding Vehicles



 



70.01  ARREST OR CITATION.



Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:



1.   Immediate Arrest.  Immediately arrest such person and take such
person before a local magistrate, or



2.   Issue Citation.  Without arresting the person, prepare in
quintuplicate a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the
Iowa Commissioner of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint
utilizing a State-approved computerized device.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)



70.02  SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.



For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)



70.03  PARKING VIOLATIONS:  ALTERNATE.



Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk.  The simple notice of a fine shall be in the
amount of ten dollars ($10.00) for all violations except improper use of a
persons with disabilities parking permit.  If such fine is not paid within
thirty (30) days, it shall be increased by five dollars ($5.00).  The simple
notice of a fine for improper use of a persons with disabilities parking
permit shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1a], 321L.4[2] & 805.8A[1c])




(Ord. 1402 - Jul. 14 Supp.)




70.04  PARKING VIOLATIONS:  VEHICLE UNATTENDED.



When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein
provided shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.



70.05  PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.



In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed
such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such
violation occurred shall be raised by proof that:



1.   Described Vehicle.  The particular vehicle described in the
information was parked in violation of the Traffic Code, and



2.   Registered Owner.  The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.



70.06  IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.



A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:



1.   Disabled Vehicle.  When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody or removal.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle.  When any vehicle is left unattended and
is so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to
the normal movement of traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



3.   Snow Removal.  When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban
on parking during snow removal operations.



4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period.  When any vehicle is left parked
for a continuous period in violation of any limited parking time.  If the
owner can be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the
vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



5.   Costs.  In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])



CHAPTER 71
PUBLIC OFF-STREET PARKING



 

71.01  Purpose
 
71.03  Parking Time Limits


71.02  Establishment of Off-Street Parking Areas
 
71.04  Other Restrictions



 



71.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to provide a system for the establishment of
off-street parking areas and for the prescribing of time limits for parking
in those areas.



71.02  ESTABLISHMENT OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.



All off-street parking areas owned and/or controlled by the City or other
governmental divisions are hereby incorporated into the provisions of this
chapter.



71.03  PARKING TIME LIMITS.



Maximum time limits for parking in public off-street parking areas are
established as follows:



1.   Two-Hour Lot.  No vehicle shall be parked longer than 120 minutes (2
hours) in any individual parking space within the following municipal parking
lots:



   A.   Northwest City Hall Lot – That lot lying northwest of the
Farner Government Building and immediately east of Main Street.  The
two-hour restriction shall apply between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., Monday through Friday.



   B.   Library Parking Lot – That lot lying north of the City
Library and immediately west of Court Street.  The two-hour restriction
shall apply between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday.



2.   Twenty-Four Hour Lot.  No vehicle shall be parked longer than 24
hours in the following parking lots or sections thereof:



   A.   Fourth Street Lot, Court Street to Clark Street;



   B.   Fourth Street Lot, Main Street to Adams Street.



3.   City Employees Lot.  The Fourth Street Parking Lot, Main Street to
Court Street, shall be designated as – and restricted to – parking for
City employees and persons providing services to the City.



4.   No Parking 10:00 p.m. – 6:00 a.m.  No vehicle shall be parked
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in the following parking lots
or sections thereof.  Exceptions may be authorized by the Police Chief.



   A.   Westgate Mall Parking Lot.



71.04  OTHER RESTRICTIONS.



In addition to the specific restrictions listed in Section 71.03, all other
posted restrictions are also enforceable under the provisions of this chapter.



CHAPTER 72
COURTHOUSE PARKING



 

72.01  Purpose
 
72.04  West Parking Lot


72.02  Lanes and Drives
 
72.05  Overnight Parking Prohibited


72.03  East Parking Lot
 
72.06  Proper Manner of Parking



 



72.01  PURPOSE.



This chapter shall establish regulations for parking on the courthouse
grounds and parking areas, pursuant to an agreement entered into between the
City and Carroll County, Iowa, under Chapter 28E, Code of Iowa.



72.02  LANES AND DRIVES.



No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device on the paved lane which extends from Main
Street to Court Street on the north side of the courthouse building and
grounds adjacent thereto and on the circular drive which has its exit and
entrance from the above drive and passes immediately in front of the north
entrance to the courthouse and under the canopy.



72.03  EAST PARKING LOT.



No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in the parking lot located to
the east of the courthouse and adjacent to the Sheriff’s office unless
identified by a County parking permit issued by the County and designating
specific authority to park in the east parking lot.



72.04  WEST PARKING LOT.



No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in the parking lot located to
the west of the courthouse and immediately adjacent to the public room unless
identified by a County parking permit issued by the County and designating
specific authority to park in the west parking lot.  This section is only
applicable during courthouse hours.



72.05  OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.



No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in the north parking lots any
time between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.  The north parking lots are those lots
lying immediately north of the courthouse and to the south of Sixth Street,
and to the immediate west of Court Street and the immediate east of Main
Street.



72.06  PROPER MANNER OF PARKING.



The courthouse lots have been signed and/or marked for ninety degree angle
parking.  No person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at a 90-degree
angle as indicated by such signs and/or markings.



CHAPTER 73
PRIVATE PARKING LOTS



 

73.01  Definition
 
73.04  Removal and Impoundment


73.02  Regulations and Restrictions
 
73.05  Policing


73.03  Parking
 
 



 



73.01  DEFINITION.



For the purpose of this chapter, “private parking lot” means any
off-street parking area accommodating more than ten (10) cars, the ownership
of which is in a private party, firm, or corporation, whether leased to the
City or otherwise, upon any portion of which parking is granted to persons
other than the owner or employees of the owner.



73.02  REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.



The provisions of this chapter are subject to the record approval of the
parking regulations and time restrictions by the Council, which regulations
and restrictions shall be posted at each entrance to said lots.



73.03  PARKING.



It is hereby made unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park or
cause or to permit to be parked a car, truck, bus or any other vehicle upon
or within any private parking lot, as above defined, in violation of any
regulations or time restrictions posted thereon by the owner, lessee or
operator, or to cause or to permit a car, truck, bus, or any other type of
vehicle to remain parked on any such lot in excess of a time limit posted
thereon by signs, and any such vehicle is hereby declared a nuisance within
the spirit and meaning of Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa.



73.04  REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT.



Any vehicle unlawfully parked upon any private parking lot referred to in
Section 73.01 hereof may be removed therefrom by the Police Department at the
expense and cost of the owner of such vehicle, and the Police Department is
hereby authorized, at the request of the owner, lessee, or operator of such
lot, to remove any vehicle so unlawfully parked and impound same to any
authorized garage or area, which vehicle shall be released to the owner upon
payment of towing and storage fees.



73.05  POLICING.



In addition to (and not in limitation of) the sanctions contained in the
above section, the Police Department may mark tires and issue a summons in
the same manner and to the same extent as is done on public streets and
publicly owned parking lots.



CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES



 

75.01  Purpose
 
75.05  Hours of Operation


75.02  Definitions
 
75.06  Negligence


75.03  General Regulations
 
75.07  Accident Reports


75.04  Places of Operation
 
 



 



75.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles, snowmobiles, off-road motorcycles and off-road utility vehicles
within the City.



75.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized
flotation-tire vehicle, with not less than three and not more than six low
pressure tires, that is limited in engine displacement to less than one
thousand (1,000) cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to less than one
thousand (1,000) pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be
straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)



2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has
a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural
terrain.  “Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was
originally issued a certificate of title and registered for highway use under
Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa, but that contains design features that
enable operation over natural terrain.  An operator of an off-road
motorcycle is also subject to the provisions of this chapter governing the
operation of all-terrain vehicles.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)



3.   "Off-road utility vehicle" means a motorized vehicle with not less
than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks that
is limited in engine displacement to less than one thousand five hundred
cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to not more than two thousand
pounds and that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to
be straddled by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for
control.  "Off-road utility vehicle" includes the following vehicles:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)



   A.   "Off-road utility vehicle - type 1" means an off-road utility
vehicle with a total dry weight of one thousand two hundred pounds or less
and a width of fifty inches or less.



   B.   "Off-road utility vehicle - type 2" means and off-road utility
vehicle, other than a type 1 off-road utility vehicle, with a total dry
weight of two thousand pounds or less, and a width of sixty-five inches or
less.



   C.   "Off-road utility vehicle - type 3" means an off-road utility
vehicle with a total dry weight of more than two thousand pounds, or a width
of more than sixty-five inches, or both.



   D.   "Snowmobile" means a motorized vehicle weighing less than one
thousand pounds which uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread
with a width of forty-eight inches or less, or any combination of runners,
skis, or tread, and is designed for travel on snow or ice.  "Snowmobile"
does not include an all-terrain vehicle, as defined in Section 321I.1, which
has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or treads.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)




(Ord. 1410 - Oct. 14 Supp.)




75.03  GENERAL REGULATIONS.



No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, off-road
motorcycle or off-road utility vehicle within the City in violation of the
provisions of Chapter 321G or 321I of the Code of Iowa or rules established
by the Natural Resources Commission of the Department of Natural Resources
governing their registration, numbering, equipment and manner of operation.



(Code of Iowa, Chapter 312G, Chapter 321I)



75.04  PLACES OF OPERATION.



The operators of all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, off-road motorcycles and
off-road utility vehicles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where they may be operated within the City:



1.   Streets. 



   A.   A registered snowmobile may be operated only upon streets which
have not been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may
be designated by resolution of the Council.



   B.   An all-terrain vehicle may not be operated upon roadways or
highways except as provided in Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. In
designating such streets, the Council may authorize ATVs to stop at service
stations or convenience stores along a designated street.



   C.   An off-road motorcycle or off-road utility vehicle may only be
operated in a manner consistent with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. 
In designating such streets, the Council may authorize off-road utility
vehicles to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a]; 321I.10[1]; 321I.1[1b], [1c])



2.   Exceptions.  Snowmobiles may be operated on City streets only under
the following circumstances:



   A.   Emergencies.  Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadways renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])



   B.   Other Times.  Snowmobiles may be operated on City streets at
other such times as determined by the Police Chief, as or when circumstances
warrant.



   C.   Direct Crossing.  Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided:



      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety
degrees to the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing; and



      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before
crossing the street; and



      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard; and



      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only
at an intersection of such street with another street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])



3.   Railroad Right-of-Way.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way.  A snowmobile may be driven across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and non-withstanding
any other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of
the established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[h])



4.   Trails.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle
trails except where designed by the controlling authority and the primary
all-terrain vehicle trail sponsor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 312G.9[4])



5.   Parks and Other City Land.  All-terrain vehicles and snowmobiles
shall not be operated in any park, playground, golf course or any other
City-owned property without the express permission of the City.



6.   All-terrain vehicles and snowmobiles shall not be operated on public
sidewalks or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking,” except
for purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized under this chapter.



75.05  HOURS OF OPERATION.



No snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle shall be operated in the City between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except for emergency situations as
described in this chapter, or for express purpose of loading or unloading
from a transport trailer.



75.06  NEGLIGENCE.



1.   The owner and operator of a snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the neglect operation of the snowmobile.  The owner of
a snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage only if the owner
was the operator of the snowmobile at the time of injury or damage occurred
or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate the snowmobile at the
time of injury or damage occurred.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18)



2.   The owner and operator of an all-terrain vehicle are liable for any
injury or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the all-terrain
vehicle.  The owner of an all-terrain vehicle shall be liable for any such
injury or damage only if the owner was the operator of the all-terrain
vehicle at the time the injury or the damage occurred or if the operator had
the owner’s consent to operate the all-terrain vehicle at the time of
injury or damage occurred.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.19)



75.07  ACCIDENT REPORTS.



1.   If a snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to anyone or property damage amounting in fifteen hundred dollars
($1,500.00) or more, either the operator or someone acting for the operator
shall immediately notify the Sheriff or another law enforcement officer in
the State.  If the accident occurred on public land or ice under the
jurisdiction of the Natural Resource Commission of the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources, the operator shall file with the Natural Resource
Commission a report of the accident, within seventy-two (72) hours,
containing information as the Natural Resources Commission may require.  All
other accidents shall be reported as required under Section 321.266 of the
Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10)



2.   If an all-terrain vehicle is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting in fifteen hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) or more, either the operator or someone acting for the
operator shall immediately notify the Sheriff or another law enforcement
officer in the State.  If the accident occurred on public land or ice under
the jurisdiction of the Natural Resource Commission of the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources, the operator shall file with the Natural Resource
Commission a report of the accident, within seventy-two (72) hours,
containing information as the Natural Resource Commission may require.  All
other accidents shall be reported as required under Section 321.266 of the
Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.11)



CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS



 



76.01  Scope of Regulations
 
76.09  Riding on Sidewalks


76.02  Traffic Code Applies
 
76.10  Towing


76.03  Double Riding Restricted
 
76.11  Improper Riding


76.04  Two Abreast Limit
 
76.12  Parking


76.05  Bicycle Paths
 
76.13  Equipment Requirements


76.06  Speed
 
76.14  Special Penalty


76.07  Emerging from Alley or Driveway
 
76.15  Scheduled Fine


76.08  Carrying Articles
 
 




 



76.01  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.



These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject
to those exceptions stated herein.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.02  TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.



Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of
a vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions that by their nature can have no
application.  Whenever such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person
shall be subject to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)



76.03  DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.



A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto.  No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])



76.04  TWO ABREAST LIMIT.



Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.  All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the
roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.05  BICYCLE PATHS.



Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.06  SPEED.



No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.07  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.



The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.08  CARRYING ARTICLES.



No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.09  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.



The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:



1.   Prohibited Area.  No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the following described business district:  that area bounded on the
north by Seventh Street; on the west by North West Street; on the east by
Clark Street; and on the south by Fourth Street.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



2.   Other Locations.  When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



3.   Yield Right-of-Way.  Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and
shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.10  TOWING.



It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.



76.11  IMPROPER RIDING.



No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.



76.12  PARKING.



No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.13  EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.



Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:



1.   Lamps Required.  Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least three hundred (300) feet to the front and with a lamp on
the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the
rear, except that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from
all distances from fifty (50) feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in
front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in
lieu of a rear light.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)



2.   Brakes Required.  Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that
will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])



76.14  SPECIAL PENALTY.



Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the
City for not less than five (5) days for the first offense, ten (10) days for
a second offense and thirty (30) days for a third offense.



76.15  SCHEDULED FINE.



The scheduled fine for persons violating the provisions of this chapter is
$15.00.



CHAPTER 77
IN-LINE SKATES, ROLLER SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS



 

77.01  Riding on Sidewalks
 
77.04  Prohibited Areas


77.02  Use of Streets
 
77.05  Scheduled Fine


77.03  Traffic Code Applies
 
 



 



77.01  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.



Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any person using in-line
skates, roller skates, or a skateboard to traverse along and upon an adjacent
street except as hereinafter provided.



1.   Pedestrian Crossing.  Every person using in-line skates, roller
skates, or a skateboard and who is crossing a roadway at any point other than
within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.



2.   Yield Right-of-Way.  Whenever any person is using in-line skates,
roller skates, or a skateboard on a sidewalk, such person shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian also using the sidewalk and shall give audible
warning before overtaking or passing.



77.02  USE OF STREETS.



Where sidewalks are not provided, people using in-line skates, roller skates,
or skateboards shall at all times, while traversing on or along a street, do
so as close to the right side as possible.



77.03  TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.



Every person riding or using in-line skates, roller skates, or a skateboard
shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of the State declaring
rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the Traffic Code of the City
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to those provisions that, by
their nature, can have no application.  Whenever such person dismounts from
the in-line skates, roller skates, or skateboard, the person shall be subject
to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.



77.04  PROHIBITED AREAS.



No person shall use in-line skates, roller skates, or a skateboard upon any
sidewalk, street, path, walkway, public plaza, courtyard, or City-owned
parking lot within the following described business district:  that area
bounded on the north by Seventh Street; on the west by North West Street (but
to include all the Carroll Depot Centre property); on the east by Clark
Street; and on the south by Fourth Street (but to include all the Carroll
Depot Centre property).



77.05  SCHEDULED FINE.



The scheduled fine for persons violating the provisions of this chapter is
$15.00.



CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES



 

80.01  Definitions
 
80.06  Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles


80.02  Authority to Take Possession of Abandoned Vehicles
 
80.07  Disposal of Totally Inoperable Vehicles


80.03  Notice by Mail
 
80.08  Proceeds from Sales


80.04  Notification in Newspaper
 
80.09  Duties of Demolisher


80.05  Fees for Impoundment
 
 



 



80.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)



1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:



   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for
more than twenty-four (24) hours and lacks current registration plates or two
or more wheels or other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.



   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for
more than 24 hours.



   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the
property for more than 24 hours.



   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of ten (10) days. 
However, a police authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the
ten-day period by commencing the notification process.



   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police
authority to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.



   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B
of the Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the
impoundment fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for
carrying out the impoundment order.



2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the
Code of Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed
scrap or scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.



3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or
establishment, motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the
servicing, repair, or maintenance of motor vehicles.



4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa state patrol or any law
enforcement agency of a county or city.



80.02  AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.



A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request
of any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic,
shall take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take
into custody any abandoned vehicle on private property.  The police
authority may employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a
private entity, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing,
preserving, storing, or disposing of abandoned vehicles.  A property owner
or other person in control of private property may employ a private entity
that is a garage keeper to dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private
entity may take into custody the abandoned vehicle without a police
authority’s initiative.  If a police authority employs a private entity to
dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police authority shall provide the private
entity with the names and addresses of the registered owners, all lienholders
of record, and any other known claimant to the vehicle or the personal
property found in the vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])



80.03  NOTICE BY MAIL.



The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within twenty (20) days, by certified mail, the last
known registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any
other known claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the
vehicle, addressed to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the
abandoned vehicle has been taken into custody.  Notice shall be deemed given
when mailed.  The notice shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle
identification number of the vehicle, describe the personal property found in
the vehicle, set forth the location of the facility where the vehicle is
being held, and inform the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property within ten (10) days after the
effective date of the notice upon payment of all towing, preservation, and
storage charges resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon
payment of the costs of the notice.  The notice shall also state that the
failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to exercise their right to
reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the time provided shall be
deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants of all right, title,
claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and that failure to
reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to the sale of the
vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a demolisher and to
disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction.  If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a police
authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity may
claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle.  If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters.  If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a
hearing or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
within the ten-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders or claimants
shall no longer have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the
vehicle or the personal property.  A court in any case in law or equity
shall not recognize any right, title, claim, or interest of the owner,
lienholders or claimants after the expiration of the ten-day reclaiming
period.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])



80.04  NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.



If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section 80.03.  The published notice may contain multiple listings of
abandoned vehicles and personal property but shall be published within the
same time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for
mailed notice in Section 80.03.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])



80.05  FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.



The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])



80.06  DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.



If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not
the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose
of the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])



80.07  DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.



The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found
any abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle
whose title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such
motor vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without
notification procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural part which renders the vehicle totally
inoperable.  The police authority shall give the applicant a certificate of
authority.  The applicant shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a
junking certificate and shall surrender the certificate of authority in lieu
of the certificate of title.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])



80.08  PROCEEDS FROM SALES.



Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the
expense of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification
required, in accordance with State law.  Any balance shall be held for the
owner of the motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for ninety (90) days, and
then shall be deposited in the State Road Use Tax Fund.  Where the sale of
any vehicle fails to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police
authority shall apply for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])



80.09  DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.



Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such
motor vehicle.  A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or
demolish a vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate
issued for the vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])



CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS



 

81.01  Definitions
 
81.04  Crossing Maintenance


81.02  Warning Signals
 
81.05  Speed


81.03  Obstructing Streets
 
 



 



81.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation or
other association that owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.



2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)



81.02  (Repealed by Ord. 1506 – Jan. 16 Supp.)



81.03  OBSTRUCTING STREETS.



Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent
vehicular use of any highway, street or alley for a period of time in excess
of ten (10) minutes except:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)



1.   Comply with Signals.  When necessary to comply with signals
affecting the safety of the movement of trains.



2.   Avoid Striking.  When necessary to avoid striking any object or
person on the track.



3.   Disabled.  When the train is disabled.



4.   Safety Regulations.  When necessary to comply with governmental
safety regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.



5.   In Motion.  When the train is in motion except while engaged in
switching operations.



6.   No Traffic.  When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing. 



An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors.  Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation.  Each 10 minutes that an operator of a railroad train violates
this Code section shall be a separate misdemeanor, punishable by a maximum
fine allowed by this Code of Ordinances, currently $500.00, as a scheduled
violation.



81.04  CROSSING MAINTENANCE.



Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.



(Bourett vs. Chicago & N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)



81.05  SPEED.



It is unlawful to operate any railroad train through any street crossing
within the platted areas of the City at a speed greater than thirty-five (35)
miles per hour, except when said railroad train is operated on Federal
Railroad Administration Classification (FRA), Class Four (4), continuous
welded rail and bed, in which case railroad train speed shall not exceed the
following maximum speeds:



(Girl vs. United States R. Admin., 194 Iowa 1382, 189 N.W. 834, [1923])



1.   40 miles per hour – coal and grain trains;



2.   55 miles per hour – all other trains.



CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM – GENERAL PROVISIONS



 



90.01  Definitions
 
90.13  Interior Stop


90.02  Water Department
 
90.14  Inspection and Approval


90.03  Mandatory Connections
 
90.15  Completion by the City


90.04  Abandoned Connections
 
90.16  Shutting off Water Supply


90.05  Permit
 
90.17  Property Owner’s Responsibility


90.06  Permit Amended
 
90.18  Failure to Maintain


90.07  Compliance with Plumbing Code
 
90.19  Operation of Curb Stop


90.08  Plumber Required
 
90.20  Opening and Closing of Gate Valves


90.09  Excavations
 
90.21  Protection of Water System


90.10  Tapping Water Mains
 
90.22  Reservation of Rights by City


90.11  Installation of Water Service Pipe
 
90.23  Water Supply Interconnections


90.12  Curb Stop
 
 




 



90.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water System:



1.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water
service from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such
parties, the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations
hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.



2.   “Water Department” means any authorized person, assistant, agent,
or representative employed by the City.



3.   “Building Official” means the authorized assistant, agent, or
representative appointed under Section 155.05 of this Code of Ordinances.



4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or
community use.



5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe and all appurtenances from
the water main to the building served.



6.   “Water system” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.



90.02  WATER DEPARTMENT.



This chapter applies to all replacements of existing water service pipes as
well as to new ones.  The Water Department shall make such rules, not in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the
detailed operation of the water system, subject to the approval of the
Council.  In the event of an emergency the Water Department may make
temporary rules for the protection of the system until due consideration by
the Council may be had.  The City Manager shall appoint a Building Official,
who shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and their
connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to water
services in the City in accordance with this chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



90.03  MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.



All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended or
used for human habitation, occupancy, or use shall be connected to the public
water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.



90.04  ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.



When an existing water service pipe is abandoned or a water service is
renewed with a new connection to the water main, all abandoned connections
shall be turned off at the corporation stop and made absolutely water-tight.



90.05  PERMIT.



Before any person makes a connection to the water system, a written permit
must be obtained from the Building Official.  The application for the permit
shall be filed with the Building Official on blanks furnished by the Building
Official.  The application shall include a legal description of the
property, the name of the property owner, the name and address of the person
who will do the work, and the general uses of the water.  No different or
additional uses will be allowed except by written permission of the Building
Official.  The Building Official shall sign and issue the permit and state
the time of issuance, if the proposed work meets all the requirements of this
chapter and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid.  Work
under any permit must be begun within six (6) months after it is issued. 
The Building Official may at any time revoke the permit for any violation of
this chapter and require that the work be stopped.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



90.06  PERMIT AMENDED.



If, in the course of the work, it is found necessary to make any change from
the plans and specifications on which a permit was issued, amended plans and
specifications shall be submitted.  A supplementary permit, subject to the
same conditions applicable to the original application for a permit, shall be
issued to cover the change.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84 [2a]



90.07  COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.



The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.



90.08  PLUMBER REQUIRED.



All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber. 



90.09  EXCAVATIONS.



Alltrench work, excavation and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with City construction specifications and
Section 96.03.



90.10  TAPPING WATER MAINS.



Alltaps into water mains shall be made under the direct supervision of the
Building Official and in accord with the following:



1.   Corporation Stop.  A brass corporation stop, of pattern and weight
approved by the Building Official, shall be inserted in every tap in the
water main.



2.   Sizes and Locations of Taps.



   A.   All Class 52 cast or ductile iron water mains six (6) inches or
less in diameter shall receive a direct tap no larger than a three-fourths
(3/4) inch.  All Class 52 cast or ductile iron water mains of over six (6)
inches in diameter shall receive a direct tap no larger than one inch. 
Where a larger connection is desired, two or more small taps or a tap saddle
or cutting-in tee shall be used, as the Water Department shall order.  All
taps in the water main shall be made at or near the top of the pipe, at least
eighteen (18) inches apart.  No water main shall be tapped nearer than one
foot of a joint in the water main.



   B.   All Pressure Class 350 ductile iron and C900 polyvinyl chloride
water main shall require the use of a service clamp or saddle when tapping. 
Service clamps and saddles up to two-inch tap size may be used for tapping
six-inch and larger water main.  Service clamps and saddles shall conform to
the requirements of the Water Department.



3.   Independent Services.  Not more than one building and the premises
in connection therewith shall be supplied from one water service pipe, where
the lot or parcel of ground on which the same are situated abuts on a street
having a water main.  Persons owning property not abutting on such streets
may run party service lines, under the direction of the Building Official. 
Party service lines shall have a curb stop and stop box close to the water
main and additional curb stop and stop boxes placed on City streets, or
alleys, so that each customer may be shut off independently.  No permit
shall be granted for connecting to a party service line until the person
applying therefor files with the Building Official written consent of all
owners of such lines.



4.   Location Record.  An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the
exact location of the corporation stop and stop box shall be filed with the
Building Official in such form as the Building Official shall require.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



90.11  INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.



Water service pipes from the water main to the meter setting shall be of such
material as specified in the City construction specifications.  The water
service pipe from the water main to the water distribution system for the
building shall be of sufficient size to furnish an adequate flow of water to
meet the requirements of the building at peak demands and in no case shall be
less than three-fourths (3/4) inch nominal diameter.  Pipe must be laid
sufficiently waving, and to such depth not less than five (5) feet, as to
prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.



90.12  CURB STOP.



There shall be a curb stop in every water service pipe connection to the
water main, or party service line in streets and alleys which shall be
located approximately one foot outside the sidewalk or in an alley within one
foot of the alley line, provided that where a two-inch or larger water
service pipe is used there shall be a street valve box over the valve at the
water main.  The curb stop to be used for water service pipes shall conform
to requirements of the Water Department, and be provided with a Tee handle
and approved by the Water Department.  The curb stop shall be covered by an
extension stop box extended to or slightly above grade and provided with a
tight fitting cover.



90.13  INTERIOR STOP.



There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every water service pipe inside
the building as close to the entrance of the water service pipe within the
building as possible and so located that the water service can be shut off
conveniently and the pipes drained.  Where one water service pipe supplies
more than one customer within the building, there shall be separate shut-off
valves for each such customer so that water service may be shut off for one
without interfering with water service to the others.



90.14  INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.



All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved by the Building Official before they are covered, and
the Building Official shall keep a record of such approvals.  Upon
completion of a water service pipe installation, before being covered, the
licensed plumber shall request an inspection by the Building Official, and
the Building Official shall, within forty-eight (48) hours, approve or
disapprove said water service pipe installation.  If the Building Official
refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must proceed
immediately to correct the work so that it will meet with the Building
Official’s approval.  Every person who uses or intends to use the water
system shall permit the Water Department to enter the premises to inspect or
make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable hours and on proof of
authority.



90.15  COMPLETION BY THE CITY.



Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for twenty-four
(24) hours after the water service pipe is installed and connected with the
water system, or should the work be improperly done, the Water Department
shall have the right to finish or correct the work, and the Council shall
assess the costs to the property owner or the plumber.  If the plumber is
assessed, the plumber must pay the costs before receiving another permit. 
If the property owner is assessed, such assessment may be collected with and
in the same manner as general property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [3a & h]



90.16  SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.



After giving 48 hours’ notice, the Water Department may shut off the supply
of water to any customer because of any substantial violation of this
chapter, or valid regulation under Section 90.02 that is not being contested
in good faith.  The supply shall not be turned on again until all violations
have been corrected and the Water Department has ordered the water to be
turned on.



90.17  PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.



All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the water main to the building
served shall be borne by the owner.  The owner shall indemnify the City from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation or maintenance of said water service pipe.



90.18  FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.



Whenever any part of the water service pipe between the water main and the
meter requires repair for any reason, the Water Department shall notify the
customer, occupant, or owner of the property or the legal agent of any of
them of such defects and if the defect is not repaired within two days after
such notice, the Water Department may discontinue City water service to the
premises until satisfactory repairs are made.  Where there is more than one
patron on a water service pipe, and one or more refuse or neglect to make
such repairs as may be necessary, the City may, after two days’ written
notice to the property owners, proceed to make such repairs and assess the
cost thereof to the respective property owners to be collected as general
property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [3a & h]



90.19  OPERATION OF CURB STOP.



It is unlawful for any person except the Water Department to turn water on at
the curb stop.



90.20  OPENING AND CLOSING GATE VALVES.



No gate valve on the water mains shall be opened or closed without permission
from the Water Department.



90.21  PROTECTION OF WATER SYSTEM.



The Building Official shall make and enforce such regulations concerning the
installation, repair, or alteration of air conditioning systems, water
treatment equipment, and water-operated devices as the Building Official
believes is necessary to properly protect the water system of the City from
anything which might endanger the health, safety, or welfare.  These
regulations are to implement the purposes of this chapter, and must be with
the consent of the Council and not be inconsistent with this chapter, or with
State laws or regulations.



90.22  RESERVATION OF RIGHTS BY CITY.



The City reserves the right to tap water mains, to lay, construct, set and
repair water service pipes, meter boxes, meters or any and all appurtenances
connected with the water service pipes, and may charge the property owners
thereof the reasonable prices therefor, not exceeding the usual prices
charged by plumbers for such work in the City.



90.23  WATER SYSTEM INTERCONNECTIONS.



There shall be no physical connection between the water system and an
individual well or central water system which will permit the passage of any
water from the individual well or central water system into the water system.



CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS



 

91.01  Purpose
 
91.06  Meter Repairs


91.02  Water Use Metered
 
91.07  Right of Entry


91.03  Fire Sprinkler Systems- Exception
 
91.08  Maintenance Test


91.04  Location of Meters
 
91.09  Accuracy Test


91.05  Meter Setting
 
 



 



91.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.



91.02  WATER USE METERED.



All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by
the City and installed within three (3) days following installation of the
water service pipe, unless such time is extended in writing by the Water
Department, to prevent damage caused by freezing, etc.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84[1])



91.03  FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS - EXCEPTION.



Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Building Official.  No
open connection can be incorporated in the system, and there shall be no
valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which must
be sealed open.



91.04  LOCATION OF METERS.



All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter
readers and repairmen and protected from freezing.  Ease of accessibility
shall be determined by the Water Department.



91.05  METER SETTING.



The property owner shall have provided all necessary piping and fittings for
proper setting of the meter including remote reader and valve on the inlet
side of the meter.  Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Water
Department and of a design and construction approved by it.



91.06  METER REPAIRS.



Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Water Department shall repair it.  If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or
property owner, then the customer or property owner shall be liable for the
cost of repairs.



91.07  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



The Water Department or its authorized representatives shall be permitted to
enter the premises of any customer at any reasonable time for any purpose
related to the water meter or water service pipe.



91.08  MAINTENANCE TEST.



Any meter found inaccurate beyond a tolerance of one and one half percent
(1½%) shall not be returned to service until properly adjusted.



91.09  ACCURACY TEST.



The Water Department shall make a test of the accuracy of any water meter at
any time when requested in writing.  If the meter is found to overrun to the
extent of two percent (2%) or more, a refund shall be made to the customer
for overcharges collected since the last known date of accuracy but not for
longer than twelve (12) months.  If the meter is found to be accurate or
slow, or less than 2% fast, the customer shall pay the amount specified in
Section 92.09, and the customer shall be liable for any deficiency over 2% up
to 12 months.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84[1])



CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES



 



92.01  Service Charges
 
92.09  Defective Meter


92.02  Rates and Service
 
92.10  Discontinued, New and Renewed Service


92.03  Bulk Water Sales
 
92.11  Service Calls


92.04  Temporary Water Service and Rate
 
92.12  Supplies, Merchandise and Services


92.05  Rates Outside the City
 
92.13  Lien for Nonpayment


92.06  Billing for Water Service
 
92.14  Lien Exemption


92.07  Service Discontinued
 
92.15  Lien Notice


92.08  Customer Deposits
 
 




 



92.01  SERVICE CHARGES.



Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in Chapter 91.  Each location,
building, premises or connection shall be considered a separate and distinct
customer whether owned or controlled by the same person or not.



92.02  RATES AND SERVICE.



Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates by the City:



1.   All water use except irrigation water service as defined in
Subsection 2:



   Rates for water service billed after July 1, 2017.



   A.   Minimum charge of $5.00 per account per month.



   B.   The first 200 cubic feet of water used per month, $2.57 per 100
cubic feet.



   C.   The next 600 cubic feet of water used per month, $2.52 per 100
cubic feet.



   D.   The next 1,900 cubic feet of water used per month, $2.42 per
100 cubic feet.



   E.   All over 2,700 cubic feet of water used per month, $2.36 per
100 cubic feet.



2.   Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates for
irrigation water service by the City:



      For irrigation water service billed after July 1, 2017.



   A.   Minimum charge of $5.00 per account per month.



   B.   All water used per month, $3.42 per 100 cubic feet.



Irrigation water service is defined as metered water that is primarily for
outdoor use, including, but not limited to, irrigation; use that does not
include a sanitary sewer service charge; and use for which the wastewater is
not discharged into the sanitary sewer system.



Meter rates shall be figured on the nearest ten (10) cubic feet.



(Ord. 1702 - May 17 Supp.)



92.03  BULK WATER SALES.



Water obtained at a fire hydrant, hauled by others, shall be furnished at the
rate as follows:



For bulk water sales after July 1, 2017.



1.   During regular working hours, $5.90 per 1,000 gallons plus $40.00 per
call-out, with a minimum charge of $45.90.



2.   During off-duty hours, $5.90 per 1,000 gallons plus $55.00 per
call-out, with a minimum charge of $60.90.



(Ord. 1702 - May 17 Supp.)



92.04  TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE AND RATE.



This section is intended for new construction of residential, commercial, and
industrial structures.  “New construction” is defined as a structure not
previously served by the City’s water system or a structure previously
served by the City’s water system, which structure was totally destroyed or
removed from the site.  This section does not apply to remodeling,
retrofitting, or similar projects.



1.   This section is applicable only to construction sites having an
approved building permit issued for the proposed structure to be built on the
site.



2.   This service shall not exceed 90 days from the date of the new
service connection to the water system.



3.   Water usage under this section shall be for the sole purpose of
construction, relative to the structure permitted for the specific
construction site, including sidewalks and driveways, and may not otherwise
be used outside of the structure.  This section shall not be utilized if the
anticipated water usage is more than 200 cubic feet per month.



4.   The City may monitor the usage to determine if it exceed the intended
purpose.  If the City determines that the usage exceeds the intended
purpose, the service will be discontinued and reconnected only as prescribed
in other sections of this Code of Ordinances.



5.   Service as delivered by this section shall be exempt from any fees,
as prescribed in Section 92.10 of this chapter.



6.   Failure to comply with any part of this section shall result in
disconnection of service from the City water system.  Any reconnection to
the City water system thereafter shall be as allowed only by other sections
of this Code of Ordinances and not as allowed in this section.



For temporary water service after July 1, 2017.



7.   Water service under this section shall be furnished at the following
rate: $42.00 (lump sum) for a period not to exceed 90 days from the date of
the new service connection to the water system and will be billed with the
building permit for the applicable structure.



(Ord. 1702 - May 17 Supp.)



92.05  RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.



Water service shall not be provided to any customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City, except by special agreement of the Council. 
No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have
signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules, and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.



92.06  BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.



Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable
in accordance with the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



1.   Bills Issued.  The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for water
service on or before the third (3rd) day of the month following the close of
the billing period.



2.   Bills Payable.  Bills for water service shall be due and payable at
the office of the Clerk by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following the
close of the billing period.



3.   Late Payment Penalty.  Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent.  A one-time late payment penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
amount due shall be added to each delinquent bill.



92.07  SERVICE DISCONTINUED.



Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued in accordance
with the following:



1.   Notice.  The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that
service will be discontinued if payment of the combined service account,
including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified in the
notice of delinquency.  Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance.



2.   Notice to Landlords.  If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner
or landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for
notice, the notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or
landlord.



3.   Hearing.  If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off, the Clerk shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the disconnection is justified.  The customer
has the right to appeal the Clerk’s decision to the Council, and if the
Council finds that disconnection is justified, then such disconnection shall
be made, unless payment has been received.



Fees for restoration of discontinued service after July 1, 2017.



4.   Fees.  A fee of $40.00 during regular working hours - or $55.00
during off-duty hours -shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer. 



(Ord. 1702 - May 17 Supp.)



92.08  CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.



There shall be required from every customer or prospective customer who is
not the owner of the premises served a $75.00 deposit intended to guarantee
the payment of bills for service.  Said deposit shall be retained by the
City for so long as the customer is furnished with water and remains a
non-owner.  At the conclusion of water service or upon the customer becoming
the owner of said property, such deposit, without interest, shall be returned
to the customer after deducting therefrom any charge which the City may have
against the customer for water or sewer service.



92.09  DEFECTIVE METER.



Should a meter owned by the City become defective and fail to register
properly, the customer will be charged at the average consumption for a
corresponding time as shown by the meter when in order. Meter accuracy
testing costs referenced in Section 91.09 shall be $40.00.



(Ord. 1702 - May 17 Supp.)



92.10  DISCONTINUED, NEW AND RENEWED SERVICE.



Customers desiring to discontinue the use of water shall give notice to the
City which shall then cause the water to be turned off. Water charges shall
be made until the water is turned off. When water service is discontinued,
all charges for water shall become due and payable. When water service is
desired, a charge shall be made for turning on water. If a meter is removed
temporarily because of an owner's absence or danger of meter damage, a charge
will be made for renewing service. Charges for new and renewed service shall
be $40.00 during regular working hours and $55.00 during off-duty hours.



(Ord. 1702 - May 17 Supp.)



92.11  SERVICE CALLS.



Service calls or requests for service may be provided at a fee of $40.00 for
each hour of regular time, or any part thereof, and $55.00 for each hour of
off-duty hours, with a minimum of one hour for either.



(Ord. 1702 - May 17 Supp.)



92.12  SUPPLIES, MERCHANDISE AND SERVICES.



Supplies, merchandise and services provided to customers by the City shall be
at City cost plus fifteen percent (15%).



92.13  LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.



The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. 
Water service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien
upon the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County
Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



92.14  LIEN EXEMPTION.



The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to a residential or commercial rental
property where water service is separately metered and the rates or charges
for the water service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the
landlord gives written notice to the City that the property is residential or
commercial rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges.  The City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of
ninety (90) days of water service be paid to the City.  The landlord's
written notice shall contain the name of the tenant responsible for charges,
the address of the rental property and the date of occupancy.  A change in
tenant shall require a new written notice to be given to the City within
thirty (30) business days of the change in tenant.  When the tenant moves
from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if the water
service charges are paid in full.  A change in the ownership of the
residential or commercial rental property shall require written notice of
such change to be given to the City within thirty (30) business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.  The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs to a water service.




(Ord. 1310 - Aug. 13 Supp.)




92.15  LIEN NOTICE.



A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. 
If the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be
given to the owner or landlord.  The notice shall be sent to the appropriate
persons by ordinary mail not less than thirty (30) days prior to
certification of the lien to the County Treasurer.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



CHAPTER 93
WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES



 

93.01  Water Shortages
 
93.04  Premium Rate


93.02  Water Conservation Measures
 
93.05  Reduction in Flow of Water to Any Customer


93.03  Appeal and Adjustment
 
93.06  Exceptions to Water Conservation



 



93.01  WATER SHORTAGES.



During and following drought conditions which may occur from time to time,
the supply of water available to the Water Treatment Plant of the City may
become significantly and seriously depleted so that there will not then be a
sufficient supply of water to meet the customary and usual demand
indefinitely.  Under those conditions, the Council may find and declare, by
resolution, a public emergency water shortage, during which time it may
require any or all of the water conservation methods set forth in Section
93.02 of this chapter for the purpose of producing an orderly and equitable
curtailment of water consumption until, by resolution, the Council finds and
declares the water shortage emergency to be ended.  The Council may
specifically authorize by resolution any of the water conservation measures
set forth in Section 93.02 and, in addition or in the alternative, may
authorize the Mayor or City Manager, or both, to designate by proclamation
which water conservation measures or additional water conservation measures
shall apply.



93.02  WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.



The Council, by resolution, or the Mayor or City Manager, by proclamation, if
authorized, may select from among the following water conservation measures:



1.   There may be voluntary water usage restrictions on the following
activities:



   A.   Watering of established residential lawns, gardens, plants,
trees, or shrubs, including but not limited to a total ban on such watering,
alternate-day watering, or watering limited to, but not more than, a certain
amount of watering within a certain specified period of time or within a
particular time frame.  In this connection, if circumstances so permit,
restrictions may also be varied as between lawns, gardens, plants, trees and
shrubs and restrictions may be varied as between established lawns and
plantings, as compared to new seeding or sod or new plantings.  The newly
planted lawns, gardens, seeding, sod, and plantings may be exempt for a
period of five (5) weeks.



   B.   Residential swimming pool filling.



   C.   Residential vehicle washing.



   D.   All inside residential water usage which is not absolutely
necessary.



   E.   All commercial water usage which is not absolutely necessary.



   F.   Requested timing adjustments (hours of the day and/or
alternative days) for all of the items listed above.



   G.   Water served at restaurants.



   H.   Washing the streets, parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks.



   I.   Ornamental fountains.



   J.   Hydrant flushing.



   K.   Washing the outside of buildings.



   L.   Nonessential construction water usage.



   M.   Public entity (City, County, school) nonessential water usage.



2.   There may be involuntary required water usage restrictions or
complete prohibitions against the following activities:



   A.   Established residential lawns, gardens, plants, shrubs, and
trees.



   B.   Newly planted (less than 5 weeks) residential lawns, gardens,
plants, shrubs, and trees.



   C.   Residential swimming pool filling, private swimming pools,
children’s wading pools, or any other indoor or outdoor pool of any kind or
description.



   D.   Residential vehicle washing.



   E.   Commercial vehicle washing establishments.



   F.   Public entity (City, County or school) nonessential water usage.



   G.   Time restrictions (hours of the day and/or days of the week)
for any and all of the items listed above.



   H.   Water served at restaurants.



   I.   Washing streets, parking lots, driveways, or sidewalks,



   J.   Ornamental fountains.



   K.   Hydrant flushing.



   L.   Washing the outside of buildings.



   M.   Construction water usage.



   N.   Tank-load water sales by City.



   O.   Temporary water rate surcharge to curb use.



3.   Each customer may be required to achieve a particular percentage
reduction in water usage as compared to a prior period usage and be subject
to the payment of a premium rate over and above the normal rate in the event
such percentage reduction is not achieved.  The amount of percentage
reduction and the base period for comparison purposes shall be established by
resolution or proclamation as previously set forth.  The premium rate shall
be as set forth in Section 93.03 of this chapter.



4.   The Council (but not the Mayor or City Manager) may set a base
allocation for every customer of the water system and, if the consumption of
a particular customer exceeds the base allocation, that customer shall pay,
in addition to the regular rate for water consumption, the premium rate set
forth in Section 93.04 for unrestrained consumption.



93.03  APPEAL AND ADJUSTMENT.



1.   Base Allocation.  In the event that the Council establishes a base
allocation by resolution, any customer of the water system may file an appeal
with the City Manager to adjust the base allocation amount.  The City
Manager may grant an adjustment to the appellant based on the following
criteria:



   A.   For single-family residential use, the base allocation may be
increased to 200 cubic feet per person per billing period for all individuals
residing at the appellant’s residence for a period of more than 30 days.



   B.   For commercial, industrial, institutional, or other residential
use, the base allocation may be increased based upon facts appropriate to the
individual customer, such as, for example, the average of the water bill
during the previous winter (November through April), production, service, or
occupancy data provided by the customer.



2.   Premium Rate Charges.  Any customer may file for adjustment of the
premium rate charges for unrestrained water consumption with the City
Manager.  The City Manager may grant an adjustment of the premium rate
charges in accordance with the following criteria:



   A.   The cause of the high consumption must be mechanical in nature
(such as broken or leaky pipes or fixtures) rather than human carelessness or
apparent disregard of this chapter.



   B.   The customer shall furnish proof that the mechanical failure
was repaired promptly.  This should be in the form of a licensed plumber’s
invoice or statement or a materials receipt.



   C.   The adjustment may be granted only for the billing period prior
to the correction of the failure.



   D.   For those accounts granted an adjustment of the premium rate
charges, the minimum adjusted premium rate shall be a surcharge of ten
percent (10%) of the normal rate in addition to the normal rate charged to
the customer.



93.04  PREMIUM RATE.



At such times as there may be restrictions on consumption which if violated
give rise to a premium rate, the premium rate shall be a ten percent (10%)
surcharge of the normal customer consumption rate in addition to the normal
rate charged to the customer.



93.05  REDUCTION IN FLOW OF WATER TO ANY CUSTOMER.



The City Manager is authorized, after giving notice and opportunity for
hearing, to reduce the flow of water to any customer determined to be using
water in any manner not in accordance with this chapter or a resolution or
proclamation issued pursuant to Section 93.02.



93.06  EXCEPTIONS TO WATER CONSERVATION.



Water reclaimed or recycled after some primary use, such as water that has
been used for washing or cooling, may be used without restriction. 
Additionally, water derived from sources other than from the water system,
such as water condensed from the atmosphere by air conditioners or collected
from rain or snow, may be used without restriction.



CHAPTER 94
PRIVATE WATER WELLS



 

94.01  Scope
 
94.04  Permit Process


94.02  Permit Required
 
94.05  Penalty


94.03  Registration of Pre-Existing Wells
 
 



 



94.01  SCOPE.



The provisions of this chapter apply to all private water wells located or to
be constructed within the City, including (but not limited to) new
construction and modification of existing wells.



94.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.



No person shall construct a private well in the City or own/use a well
constructed after the effective date of this provision, unless a permit has
been issued for the well by the City Manager.  This permit shall be in
addition to any permits required by the State or County.  This requirement
shall not apply to monitoring wells used for soil and groundwater
investigation.



94.03  REGISTRATION OF PRE-EXISTING WELLS.



Any person who owns property in the City and who has a well, other than a
monitoring well, which was constructed prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified by this chapter, shall register said well with the City. 
Registration forms for this may be obtained from the City.  There will be no
fee charged for the registration of a pre-existing well.



94.04  PERMIT PROCESS.



1.   Any person desiring a well permit shall make application to the City
on the form prescribed by the City Manager.  The City Manager shall
determine the necessary information, date, and testing required for the
issuance of the permit.



2.   In determining whether to issue a permit or not, the City Manager
shall consider the availability of public water to serve the real property,
building or facility, the estimated amount of water to be consumed, possible
contamination of the water, and the purpose for which the water will be
used.  The applicant shall be required to have an environmental assessment
completed to determine if there are known sources of contamination, pursuant
to the Iowa Department of Natural Resources rules and regulations.



3.   If the property, building, or facility to be served is located within
200 feet of public water, the City Manager shall automatically deny the
permit, and the applicant shall be required to use the public water system.



4.   If the City Manager determines that the water is in an area of
contamination or is otherwise unfit, said official may deny the permit or
make such limitations as to the use of the water from said private well as
are necessary to protect life and property.  In determining what the actual
area of contamination is, the City Manager shall consider current levels and
areas of contamination, as well as where the contamination might reasonably
be expected to expand to the foreseeable future.



5.   The application shall not be deemed complete until all information,
data, and testing results required by the City Manager have been submitted to
said official for consideration and required fee paid in full.



6.   The City Manager shall rule upon the permit application within 30
working days of the submitting of the completed application.  The City
Manager may, upon good cause, extend said period for approval of the
application an additional 30 working days by issuing a written notice to the
applicant.  Any application that is not acted upon in a timely manner by the
City Manager shall be deemed to have been denied upon the expiration of time
provided by this section.



7.   The applicant may appeal the decision of the City Manager to the City
Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Manager within ten
(10) business days after the decision.  The City Council shall meet to
determine the appeal within 45 days of the date the appeal is filed.



8.   The applicant shall pay an application fee in the amount set by
resolution of the Council.



9.   All required testing and collection of information and data shall be
at the applicant’s expense.



94.05  PENALTY.



Any person found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalty provisions of
Section 4.03 of this Code of Ordinances.  Each day that a violation is
allowed to continue shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.  At
the discretion of the City Attorney, any violation of the provisions of this
chapter may be pursued as a municipal infraction according to the terms of
Chapter 4 in lieu of criminal prosecution.



CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM – GENERAL PROVISIONS



 

95.01  Purpose
 
95.06  Service Outside the City


95.02  Definitions
 
95.07  Right of Entry


95.03  Superintendent’s Duties
 
95.08  Use of Easements


95.04  Prohibited Acts
 
95.09  Special Penalties


95.05  Sewer Connection Required
 
 



 



95.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.



95.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:



1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity
of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20º) C,
expressed in milligrams per liter or parts per million.



2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping
of a building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste,
and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to
the building sewer, beginning five (5) feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.



3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from
the building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary
treatment portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
conveying the drainage of one building site.



4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.



5.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person responsible for the
production of domestic, commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or
indirectly discharged into the public sewer system, the owner of the property
served, if different, and, as between such parties, the duties,
responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be
joint and several.



6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.



7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary
sewage. 



8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to
inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections
to the public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged
therefrom. 



9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater. 



10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all
equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage,
treatment, and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or
other facilities serving the equivalent of fifteen persons (1500 gpd) or less.



11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of
hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution. 



12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.



13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water,
and industrial waste.



14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which
storm, surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted. 



15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present. 



16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage. 



17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for
collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage. 



18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage. 



19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing
of said customers by said sewer system.



20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste
that in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds
for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five
(5) times the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal
operation. 



21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries
storm and surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.



22.   “Superintendent” means the Public Works Director or any
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.



23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface
of, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are
removable by laboratory filtering. 



24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs,
either continuously or intermittently.



95.03  SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.



The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   Operation and Maintenance.  Operate and maintain the City sewage
system.



2.   Inspection and Tests.  Conduct necessary inspections and tests to
assure compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters. 



3.   Records.  Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers,
sewage connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades
thereof.



95.04  PROHIBITED ACTS.



No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:



1.   Damage Sewer System.  Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater.  Connect a roof downspout, sump
pump, exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface
run-off or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. 



3.   Manholes.  Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.



4.   Objectionable Wastes.  Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.



5.   Septic Tanks.  Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



6.   Untreated Discharge.  Discharge to any natural outlet within the
City, or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



95.05  SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.



The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located,
or may in the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are
hereby required to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet
facilities therein and a building sewer connecting such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with
the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be
completed within thirty (30) days after date of official notice from the City
to do so provided that said public sewer is located within two hundred (200)
feet (61 meters) of the property line of such owner and is of such design as
to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to it. 
Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice to
connect to the public sewer.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



(IAC, 567-69.1[3])



95.06  SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.



Sewer service shall not be provided to any customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City, except by agreement of the Council.  No
customer will be served unless the customer has signed a service contract
agreement to be bound by ordinances, rules, and regulations applying to sewer
service established by the Council.



95.07  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



The Superintendent or any duly authorized deputy, employee, agent, or
representative shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time for any purpose related to sanitary sewers or connections.



95.08  USE OF EASEMENTS.



The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement.  All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.



95.09  SPECIAL PENALTIES.



The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters: 



1.   Notice of Violation.  Any person found to be violating any provision
of these chapters except subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section 95.04, shall be
served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof.  The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations. 



2.   Continuing Violations.  Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection 1 hereof shall be in
violation of this Code of Ordinances.  Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.



3.   Liability Imposed.  Any person violating any of the provisions of
these chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or
damage occasioned the City by reason of such violation. 



CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS



 

96.01  Permit Required
 
96.06  Sewer Tap


96.02  Plumber Required
 
96.07  Inspection Required


96.03  Excavations
 
96.08  Property Owner’s Responsibility


96.04  Connection Requirements
 
96.09  Abatement of Violations


96.05  Interceptors Required
 
 



 



96.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.



No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Building Official, in accordance
with the following:



1.   Application.  Any person desiring to make a connection with the
sewer system shall first file with the Building Official an application
therefor, on blanks furnished by the City, setting forth the location and
description of the property to be connected with the sewer system and for
what purpose the sewer is to be used.



2.   Plans and Specifications.  The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Building Official.



3.   Limited Responsibility for Permit Revocation.  All permits to
connect with sewer shall be given upon the express condition that the Council
may at any time before the work is completed revoke and annul the same and no
party interested shall have a right to claim damages in consequence of any
such permits being revoked or annulled.



4.   Connection Charge.  No permit shall be issued or connection made
unless connection charges as required herein are paid in full.



   A.   Burgess Avenue.  A connection charge of five hundredths
dollars ($0.05) per square foot of total lot area to be served shall be
required for each connection to the sanitary sewer line beginning at the C &
NW RR (UPRR) and ending at Industrial Park Road.



   B.   Industrial Park Road.  A connection charge of five hundredths
dollars ($0.05) per square foot of total lot area to be served shall be
required for each connection to the sanitary sewer line beginning at Burgess
Avenue and ending at Kittyhawk Avenue.




(Ord. 1606 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




96.02  PLUMBER REQUIRED.



All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.



96.03  EXCAVATIONS.



All excavations for building sewer installations shall be made in accord with
the following and with the provisions of Chapter 135 where applicable.



1.   Barricades and Lighting.  Adequate barricades and warning lights
shall be so placed as to protect the public from hazard.



2.   Public Convenience.  Streets and alleys shall be opened in the
manner which will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.



3.   Construction Methods.  All excavation required for the installation
of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by
the City.  Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
the City’s construction specifications, except that no backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected.



4.   Restoration of Public Property.  Streets, sidewalks, parkways and
other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the property owner.



5.   Completion by the City.  Should any excavation be left open or only
partially refilled for 24 hours or should the work be improperly done, the
Building Official shall have the right to finish or correct the work, and the
Council shall assess the cost to the property owner or plumber.  If the
plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the cost before receiving another
permit.  If the property owner is assessed, such assessment may be collected
with and in the same manner as general property taxes.



96.04  CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.



Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Building Official and in accordance with the following:



1.   Old Building Sewers.  Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
conducted by the owner and observed by the Building Official, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.



2.   Separate Building Sewers.  A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway.  In such cases the building sewer from the front building
may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.



3.   Installation.  The installation and connection of the building sewer
into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing
Code, and other applicable rules and regulations of the City.  All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight.  Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Building Official
before installation. 



4.   Water Lines.  When possible, building sewers should be laid at least
ten (10) feet horizontally from a water service.  The horizontal separation
may be less, provided the water service line is located at one side and at
least twelve (12) inches above the top of the building sewer. 



5.   Size.  Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage
flow from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four (4) inches.



6.   Alignment and Grade.  All building sewers shall be laid to a
straight line to meet the following: 



   A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth (1/4) inch per foot. 



   B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth (1/8) inch per foot. 



   C.   Minimum velocity of 2.50 feet per second with the sewer half
full.



   D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Building Official and shall be made only with
approved fittings. 



7.   Depth.  Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor.  The depth of cover
above the sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.



8.   Sewage Lifts.  In all buildings in which any building drain is too
low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by
such drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.



9.   Pipe Specifications.  Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks.  Materials shall be as specified in the Building Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:



   A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).



   B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74. 



   C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.



   D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.



   E.   Concrete sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-14.



10.   Bearing Walls.  No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or
within three (3) feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened. 



11.   Jointing.  Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Building Official.  Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.



12.   Unstable Soil.  No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is
exposed when crossing any watercourse.  Where an old watercourse must of
necessity be crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or
settlement, cast iron soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly
encased in concrete shall be required for such crossings.  Such encasement
shall extend at least six (6) inches on all sides of the pipe.  The cast
iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on firm, solid material at either
end. 



13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space.  No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent
to the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled.  The
backfill shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from
the foundation.  Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the
first floor is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be
plugged and the plug shall be sealed by the Building Official.  Any
accumulation of water in any excavation or basement during construction and
prior to connection to the sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other
than draining into the sanitary sewer. 



96.05  INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.



Grease, oil, sludge and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and
service stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other
facilities when, in the opinion of the Building Official, they are necessary
for the proper handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive
amounts or any flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients.  Such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.  When required, such interceptors shall be installed in accordance
with the following:



1.   Design and Location.  All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity as specified by the Building Code, approved by the Building
Official, and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.



2.   Construction Standards.  The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature.  They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and
equipped with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight. 



3.   Maintenance.  All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner
at the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient
operations at all times.



96.06  SEWER TAP.



Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.  If no
properly located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be
installed at the location specified by the Building Official.  The public
sewer shall be tapped with a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the
type of public sewer shall be glued or attached with a gasket and stainless
steel clamps to the sewer.  At no time shall a building sewer be constructed
so as to enter a manhole unless special written permission is received from
the Building Official and in accordance with the Building Official’s
direction if such connection is approved.



96.07  INSPECTION REQUIRED.



All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Building Official.  As soon as
all pipe work from the public sewer to inside the building has been
completed, and before any backfilling is done, the Building Official shall be
notified and the Building Official shall inspect and test the work as to
workmanship and material; no sewer pipe laid under ground shall be covered or
trenches filled until after the sewer has been so inspected and approved. 
If the Building Official refuses to approve the work, the plumber or owner
must proceed immediately to correct the work.



96.08  PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.



All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer, including the “Y” branch, shall be
borne by the owner.  The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of
the building sewer.



96.09  ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.



Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which
construction or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of
this chapter, shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within thirty
(30) days after date of official notice from the Council of such violation. 
If not made within such time, the Council shall, in addition to the other
penalties herein provided, have the right to finish and correct the work and
assess the cost thereof to the property owner.  Such assessment shall be
collected with and in the same manner as general property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])



CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS



 

97.01  Storm Water
 
97.05  Restricted Discharges; Powers


97.02  Surface Waters Exception
 
97.06  Special Facilities


97.03  Prohibited Discharges
 
97.07  Control Manholes


97.04  Restricted Discharges
 
97.08  Testing of Wastes



 



97.01  STORM WATER.



No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.  Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm
sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent.  Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of
the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.



97.02  SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.



Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to
the best interests of the sewer system.



97.03  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.



No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:



1.   Flammable or Explosive Material.  Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha,
fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas. 



2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials.  Any waters or wastes containing toxic
or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly
or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public
nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage
treatment plant, including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two (2)
milligrams per liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer. 



3.   Corrosive Wastes.  Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works. 



4.   Solid or Viscous Substances.  Solid or viscous substances in
quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works
such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings,
metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole
blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups,
milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders. 



5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.  Any waters or wastes having (a) a
five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per million by
weight, or (b) containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids, or (c) having an average daily flow greater than two
percent of the average sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.  Where necessary in the opinion of the
Superintendent, the owner shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to (a) reduce the biochemical
oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by weight, or (b) reduce the suspended
solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or (c) control the quantities and
rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.  Plans, specifications, and any
other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment
facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the Superintendent and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are
obtained in writing. 



97.04  RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.



No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance.  In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities
of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.  The
substances restricted are:



1.   High Temperature.  Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher
than one hundred fifty degrees (150º) F (65º C).



2.   Fat, Oil, Grease.  Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease
or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or
600 milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter. 



3.   Viscous Substances.  Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º F and 150º F (0º to
65º C).



4.   Garbage.  Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is,
to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
than one-half (½) inch in any dimension.



5.   Acids.  Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not. 



6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes.  Any waters or wastes containing
iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances;
or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any
such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials. 



7.   Odor or Taste.  Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other
taste or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits
that may be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment
of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, Federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.



8.   Radioactive Wastes.  Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
Superintendent in compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations. 



9.   Excess Alkalinity.  Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of
9.5. 



10.   Unusual Wastes.  Materials that exert or cause:



   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).



   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).



   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage
treatment works.



   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein. 



11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases.  Any noxious or malodorous gas or
other substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is
capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing
entry into sewers for their maintenance and repair. 



12.   Damaging Substances.  Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances
that react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in
objectionable concentration or create any other condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes. 



13.   Untreatable Wastes.  Waters or wastes containing substances that
are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies
having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.



97.05  RESTRICTED DISCHARGES – POWERS.



If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section 97.04 and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:



1.   Rejection.  Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the
public sewage system;



2.   Pretreatment.  Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers; 



3.   Controls Imposed.  Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or 



4.   Special Charges.  Require payment to cover the added cost of
handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer
charges under the provisions of Chapter 99.



97.06  SPECIAL FACILITIES.



If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.  Where
preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at the owner’s expense.



97.07  CONTROL MANHOLES.



When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes.  Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent.  The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the
owner’s expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.



97.08  TESTING OF WASTES.



All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association,
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable
samples taken at said control manhole.  In the event that no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building
sewer is connected.  Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted
methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to
determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.  (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of
all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken.  Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s
are determined from periodic grab samples).



CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS



 

98.01  When Prohibited
 
98.06  Maintenance of System


98.02  When Required
 
98.07  Systems Abandoned


98.03  Compliance with Regulations
 
98.08  Disposal of Septage


98.04  Permit Required
 
98.09  Minimum placeLot Area


98.05  Discharge Restrictions
 
 



 



98.01  WHEN PROHIBITED.



Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



98.02  WHEN REQUIRED.



When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed
shall be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.



(IAC, 567-69.1[3])



98.03  COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.



The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.



(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])



98.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.



No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.



98.05  DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.



It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.



(IAC, 567-69.1[3]) 



98.06  MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.



The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.



98.07  SYSTEMS ABANDONED.



At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])



98.08  DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.



No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.



98.09  MINIMUM LOT AREA.



No permit shall be issued for any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet.



CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES



 

99.01  Sewer Service Charges Required
 
99.05  Exceptions


99.02  Sanitary Sewer Service Charge Rates
 
99.06  Payment of Bills


99.03  Other Charges
 
99.07  Lien for Nonpayment


99.04  Private Water Systems
 
99.08  Special Agreements Permitted



 



99.01  SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.



Every customer shall pay to the City sewer service fees as hereinafter
provided.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



99.02  SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CHARGE RATES.



Each customer shall pay sanitary sewer charges in accordance with the
following schedule



ALL USERS



1.   Rates for Sanitary Sewer Service Billed After September 1, 2015:



A.   Minimum charge of $7.95 per account per month.



B.   All water used and discharged into the sanitary sewer per month,
$4.14 per 100 cubic feet.



2.   Rates for Sanitary Sewer Service Billed After July 1, 2016:



A.   Minimum charge of $8.45 per account per month.



B.   All water used and discharged into the sanitary sewer per month,
$4.41 per 100 cubic feet.



(Ord. 1505 – Jan. 16 Supp.)



99.03  OTHER CHARGES.



1.   Sanitary waste discharges from industrial customers, in amounts
approved by the Superintendent, shall be charged at the rates contained in
Section 99.02.



2.   Industrial and meatpacking process waste discharges shall be metered
by a waste flow meter maintained by the discharging entity and charged at the
following rates:



   A.   Flow = $0.40 / 1,000 gal.



   B.   BOD5 = $0.20 / lb.



   C.   TSS = $0.20 / lb.



3.   All leachate waste monitoring, testing and reporting of Compatible
Wastes, Metals and Iowa DNR Sampling Guidelines (10-26-93), IAC 103.2(4) will
be performed by or through the City for a monthly fee of $200.00.



4.   All leachate waste discharge shall be metered by equipment maintained
by the discharging entity and charged at the following rates:



      (1)   Flow = $1.00 / 1000 gal.



      (2)   CBOD5 = 0.1075 / lb.



      (3)   TSS = 0.1163 / lb.



      (4)   NH 3 N = 0.1000 / lb.



The quantity of the wastewater parameters shall be determined based on
sampling, testing and reporting required by any Treatment Agreement or Iowa
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit.



5.   Agricultural pesticide waste monitoring, testing, and reporting of
compatible and incompatible wastes performed by or through the City will be
charged an initial fee of $4,800.00 and a monthly fee of $400.00.



99.04  PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.



Customers whose premises are served by a private water system and discharge
into the sanitary sewer shall pay sanitary sewer service charges based upon
water use as determined by the City either by an estimate agreed to by the
customer or by metering the water use at the customer’s expense.  Any
negotiated or agreed upon charges shall be subject to approval of the Council.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



99.05  EXCEPTIONS.



Any person using water for air conditioning, lawn sprinkling systems or for
irrigation shall not be required to pay sanitary sewer service charges for
such usage, providing such water is not discharged into the sanitary sewer of
the City.  In order to be relieved from the payment of sanitary sewer
service charges provided for under this chapter, any such air conditioning
unit or units, sprinkler system or irrigation system shall be separately
metered to determine the amount of water so used.  The said meter shall be
installed according to the specifications pertaining to the use, regulation,
installation, payment, testing and safeguarding of water meters.



99.06  PAYMENT OF BILLS.



All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section 92.06 of this Code of Ordinances.  Sewer service may be discontinued
in accordance with the provisions contained in Section 92.07 if the combined
service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained in Section
92.15 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



99.07  LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.



The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for sewer service charges to the premises. 
Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien
upon the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County
Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



99.08  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.



No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.



CHAPTER 100
STORM WATER UTILITY



 

100.01  Storm Water Utility Established
 
100.05  Storm Water Utility Charge


100.02  Definitions
 
100.06  Billing, Delinquency, Collection, Interestand Penalties


100.03  Powers, Duties and Responsibilities
 
100.07  Adoption of Rules


100.04  General Policies
 
100.08  Appeals



 



100.01  STORM WATER UTILITY ESTABLISHED.



Pursuant to the authority of Section 384.84 of the Code of Iowa, the Council
hereby establishes a storm water utility in the City.  The entire City, as
increased from time to time, shall constitute a single storm water drainage
system district.



100.02  DEFINITIONS.



When a word, term or phrase is used in this chapter, it shall be interpreted
or construed first as defined in this chapter; second, if not defined in this
chapter, it shall be interpreted or construed as defined in applicable
provisions of the Code of Iowa; third, if not defined in the Code of Iowa, it
shall be interpreted or construed according to its generally accepted meaning
in the storm water industry; and fourth, if it has no generally accepted
meaning in the storm water industry, it shall be interpreted or construed
according to its common or customary usage.



1.   “Agricultural property” means unimproved property used for
agricultural purposes.



2.   “Area” means the total area of a parcel as determined from
sources of information as the City may determine to be appropriate and
accurate.



3.   “Church” means a building which has religious worship as its main
purpose.



4.   “Condominium” means a single unit in a multi-unit dwelling or
structure that is separately owned and may be combined with an undivided
interest in the common areas and facilities of the property.



5.   “Connection” means the physical act or process of directly or
indirectly allowing the flow of storm or surface waters to the storm sewer,
drainage line, or drainage facility, or joining into an existing sewer for
the purpose of connecting private surface or other storm and surface water
sources or drainage systems to the public storm sewer or surface water
drainage system.  A connection shall include the creation or maintenance of
an impervious or pervious surface that causes or is likely to cause an
increase in the quantity or decrease in the quality, or both, from the
natural state of storm water runoff and which drains either directly or
indirectly to the storm sewer system or surface water drainage system of the
City.



6.   “Contributor” means any person, firm, corporation, or other
entity or organization responsible for the direct or indirect discharge of
storm water or surface or subsurface waters to the City’s storm water
drainage system.



7.   “Days” means calendar days.



8.   “Duplex residential property” means two dwelling units joined to
each other with a common wall or one above the other, on one or two parcels
whether under common or separate ownership.



9.   “Dwelling unit” means one or more habitable rooms which are
intended or designed for human occupancy and designed for one family with
facilities for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.



10.   “Equivalent Service Unit” or “ESU” means a measurement unit
based on a numerical factor times the impervious and pervious surface areas
of a typical single-family residential property within the City.  One
Equivalent Service Unit shall be deemed equal to a numerical value of 2500.



11.   “ESU rate” means the dollar value assigned to each ESU as a
monthly charge for storm water utility.



12.   “Exempt property” means all property owned directly by the City,
which property is exempt from the storm water utility charge.



13.   “Impervious area” or “impervious surface area” means the
surface area (in square feet) which either prevents or retards the entry of
water into the soil mantle as it entered under natural conditions as
unimproved property and/or causes water to run off the surface in greater
quantities or at an increased rate of flow from that present under natural
conditions as unimproved property, including, but not limited to:  roofs,
roof extensions, patios, porches, driveways, sidewalks, pavement and athletic
courts.



14.   “Mobile home park” means property under common ownership upon
which two or more occupied manufactured housing units are harbored, either
free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building,
structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of such mobile home park.



15.   “Multi-family residential property” means Property containing a
building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by three or more families
living independently in which they may or may not share common entrances
and/or other spaces.  Individual dwelling units may be owned as
condominiums, or offered for rent.



16.   “Nonresidential property” means any property developed for
commercial, industrial, governmental or institutional use, including office,
manufacturing, warehousing, sales, restaurant, day care, nursery, churches,
schools, utilities, public service buildings, hospitals, nursing homes,
retirement homes, multi-use properties incorporating residential uses and
other uses which are not considered exempt property.



17.   “Occupant” means the person residing or doing business on the
property.



18.   “Owner” means the legal owner or legal owners of record as shown
on the land records of Carroll County or where there is a recorded land sale
contract the purchaser thereunder.



19.   “Parcel” means a parcel of record as shown on the land records
of Carroll County.



20.   “Person” means any individual, public or private corporation,
political subdivision, governmental agency, municipality, partnership,
association, firm, trust, limited partnership, limited-liability corporation
or any other legal entity whatsoever created.



21.   “Pervious area” or “pervious surface area” means the area
(in square feet) that allows the entry of water into the soil mantle as it
entered under natural conditions as unimproved property and/or does not cause
water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of
flow from that present under natural conditions as unimproved property.



22.   “Revenue” means all rates, fees, assessments, rentals and other
charges or other income received by the utility in connection with the
management and operation of the system, including amounts received from the
investment on deposits of money in any fund or account and any amounts
contributed by the City, all as calculated in accordance with sound
accounting practices.



23.   “School” means public or parochial educational facilities.



24.   “Single-family residential property” means one or more parcels
of land on which a single-family dwelling unit or duplex residential property
not attached to another residential structure exists at any time during the
applicable provisions of this chapter.  A single-family residential property
includes manufactured homes, modular homes, and similar dwelling units if
located on separate parcels.  Two separate detached dwelling units on a
single parcel shall be considered a single-family residential property unless
said parcel is classified by Carroll County as a duplex residential property.



25.   “Storm water drainage system” means any combination of public
storm or surface water facilities, pumping or lift stations, storm and
secondary drain pipes and culverts, open channels, creeks and rivers, force
mains, laterals, manholes, catch basins, inlets including the grates and
covers thereof, detention and retention facilities and other publicly owned
facilities for the collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal of storm
and surface water within the City.



26.   “Storm water utility” or “utility” means the enterprise fund
utility hereby created to operate, maintain and improve the storm sewer and
storm water drainage system and for such other purposes as stated in this
chapter.



27.   “Storm water utility system” or “system” means the existing
storm water management facilities and flood protection system of the City and
all improvements thereto which by this chapter are constituted as the
property and responsibility of the storm water utility, to be operated as an
enterprise fund to (among other things) conserve water; control discharges
and flows necessitated by rainfall events; and incorporate methods to
collect, convey, store, absorb, inhibit, treat, use or reuse water to prevent
or reduce flooding, over drainage, environmental degradation and water
pollution or otherwise affect the quality or quantity of discharge from such
system.



28.   “Townhouse” means a dwelling unit having one or more common
walls designed so as to have direct access outside.



29.   “Unimproved property” means any property which has not been
improved for purposes of a residential or nonresidential use.



30.   “User” means any person or entity which uses property that
maintains a connection to, discharges to, or otherwise receives services from
the City’s storm water drainage system.



100.03  POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.



The Superintendent shall have the following powers, duties and
responsibilities:



1.   Administer and enforce this chapter and all rules and procedures
relating to the design, construction, maintenance, operation and alteration
of the storm water utility system, including but not limited to the quantity,
quality and/or velocity of the storm water conveyed thereby.



2.   Administer the acquisition, design, construction, maintenance, and
operation of the storm water utility system, including capital improvements.



3.   Review plans, approve or deny, inspect and accept or reject
extensions to the storm water drainage system.



4.   Inspect private storm water drainage systems as necessary to
determine the compliance of such systems with this chapter and any rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter.



5.   Establish and enforce rules to protect and maintain water quality
within the storm water utility system in compliance with water quality
standards established by State, regional and/or Federal agencies as adopted
or amended.



100.04  GENERAL POLICIES.



1.   Impact of Construction.  The storm water utility charge attributable
to a property shall not change during the course of construction of
improvements to the property.  In the event of construction the City shall
determine any modifications to the appropriate charge, which shall be
effective upon the earlier of:



   A.   The issuance of a certificate of occupancy.



   B.   Ninety (90) days after construction is halted, provided the
construction is at least 50% complete.



   C.   Ninety (90) days after construction is completed even if a
certificate of occupancy has not been issued.



2.   Measured Uses.  The charge shall be on the basis of the actual
determined number of ESUs rounded to the nearest whole number with no
limitation.



3.   Parking and Storage Areas.  All parking and storage areas whether
dirt, gravel or paved, shall be deemed impervious.  A parking area is
defined as an area where motor vehicles are parked on a temporary basis. 
This shall include areas such as public or private parking lots.



4.   Roads.  Public roads shall not be included in the measurement of
impervious area.  All private roads are to be included in the measurement of
impervious areas, except private roads that serve unmeasured uses.  A
roadway, whether dirt, gravel, or paved, shall be considered impervious and
is defined as the area intended for the purpose of providing access for motor
vehicles.



5.   Storm Water Detention and Retention Facilities.  Storm water
management detention and retention facilities shall not affect the
calculation of the storm water utility charge.  Storm water detention or
retention basins, which have a surface discharge, shall not qualify the user
of the property for any exemption or modification of the determined storm
water utility charge.



6.   Trails and Landscaping Areas.  A dirt or gravel area that is not
accessed by motor vehicles or is not otherwise highly compacted shall be
considered not an impervious area.  These areas shall include such uses as
landscaping and dirt or gravel areas accessed by only foot traffic or
incidental small vehicle traffic.



100.05  STORM WATER UTILITY CHARGE.



1.   General.



   A.   There is hereby established a storm water utility charge.  The
charge is imposed on every user within the City.  The charge may be required
to be paid in advance of the provision of the services for the billing
period. 



   B.   The storm water utility charge shall be imposed on any person
who uses or discharges to the storm water drainage system by:



      (1)   Maintaining impervious surface area connected to either
directly or indirectly and capable of discharge to the storm water drainage
system or surface water management; or



      (2)   Actually discharging storm or surface water into the
storm water drainage system; or



      (3)   Maintaining an unimproved or essentially unimproved
property which contributes water either directly or indirectly to the storm
water drainage system through surface water runoff; or



      (4)   Having property located within the natural drainage
boundary of a floodway or drainage facility owned and operated by the City
for purpose of flood prevention or flood protection.



   C.   All users of property within the boundaries of the City,
whether unimproved property or containing impervious surface area, are
presumed to discharge storm water to the storm water drainage system and to
generate a demand for storm and surface water drainage services unless
property is defined as an exempt property or is specifically determined by
any rules promulgated for the implementation of this chapter to be determined
not to discharge directly or indirectly to the storm water drainage system.



   D.   The minimum storm water utility charge billed shall be 1 ESU.



All storm water utility charges shall be on the basis of a whole number of
ESUs with the ESUs being rounded to the nearest whole number.  For
properties with an ESU rounded to zero, the property will not be billed a
storm water utility charge.



   E.   The charge shall be the personal obligation of the user.  For
purposes of this chapter the owner of the property shall be the user unless
an occupant of the property other than the owner shall be determined to be
the user.  This charge shall constitute a debt due the City as of the date
of imposition.



   F.   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the owner of the
real property as shown on the land records of Carroll County is the occupant
and user.



   G.   Any person who has paid the full amount due in advance for
receiving of service shall be entitled to a refund if the person ceases to be
the user.  The refund shall be effective on the date the person is no longer
the user and based on the number of days remaining in the billing period;
provided, however, the refund shall not be effective unless there is a user
or party in interest to assume responsibility for the applicable charge. 
The refund is waived unless a written request for refund is on file within
thirty (30) days after the date of vacating or selling the property.  The
provision for a refund shall not be applicable unless the period for which
the refund is due is greater than 30 days and the amount due for the refund
is greater than $5.00.



2.   Rates.



   A.   The monthly storm water utility charge shall be based on an ESU
rate of $3.00 per ESU.



   B.   The maximum monthly storm water utility charge shall be $50.00
per account.



   C.   The maximum monthly storm water utility charge for schools
shall be $25.00 per account.



   D.   The maximum monthly storm water utility charge for churches
shall be $10.00 per account.



3.   Use Types; Determination of ESUs.  For the purpose of this chapter
two types of uses are established:



   A.   Unmeasured Use.  An unmeasured use shall be charged at the
rate of 1 ESU per applicable unit.



   B.   Measured Use.  Properties that are not classified as
unmeasured uses shall be measured uses.  For measured uses the impervious
surface area and the pervious surface area shall be measured.  Measurement
of the areas shall be estimated by using one or more of the following: 
aerial photographs; assessment records; building permits; construction plans;
site visits; ad valorem property tax records; storm and surface water system
connection permits; field surveys; or other sources deemed reliable by the
City.  The impervious surface area and the pervious surface area shall be
each multiplied by the respective factor provided in this chapter.  The
products of the multiplication shall be added and divided by the numerical
value of one ESU to determine the number of ESUs for the property.  The
number of ESUs determined by the division shall be rounded to the nearest
whole number, with said whole number being established as the number of ESUs
applicable for the use.



      Surface Area            Factor



      Impervious            0.85



      Pervious            0.05



4.   User Types; Rate Determination.  The storm water utility charge for
each property shall be determined in accordance with the procedure
established for the user type determined appropriate for that property.



   A.   Unmeasured Use.



      (1)   Single-Family Residential Property – Owner Occupied.



      (2)   Single-Family Residential Property – Rental.  A
single-family residential property which is not owner occupied.



      (3)   Duplex Residential Property.  Each dwelling unit of a
duplex residential property shall be charged as an unmeasured use.



      (4)   Condominiums and Townhomes.  Each dwelling unit of a
condominium or townhome development shall be charged as an unmeasured use.



   B.   Measured Use.



      (1)   Multi-Family Residential Property.



         a.   If each dwelling unit of a multi-family residential
property has an account with the City, the total storm water utility charge
determined by measured use shall be divided and billed equally to each
dwelling unit with a minimum billing to each dwelling unit of one ESU.



         b.   If a multi-family residential property has a single
account with the City, the total storm water utility charge shall be billed
to that account.



      (2)   Mobile Home Park.



         a.   If each dwelling unit of a mobile home park has an
account with the City, the total storm water utility charge determined by
measured use shall be divided and billed equally to each dwelling unit with a
minimum billing to each dwelling unit of one ESU.



         b.   If a mobile home park has a single account with the
City, the total storm water utility charge shall be billed to that account.



      (3)   Nonresidential Property.



      (4)   Agricultural Property.



      (5)   Unimproved Property.



   C.   Exempt Use.  Properties classified as 99% or more pervious
area shall be exempt from any storm water utility charge.



100.06  BILLING, DELINQUENCY COLLECTION, INTEREST AND PENALTIES.



1.   Billing.  The billing procedures for the storm water utility charge
shall be by the City generally as follows:



   A.   The user of a single-family residential property (owner
occupied with an account with the City) shall be billed by the City using
such billing procedures as established by the City and may be billed on the
same bill as the water bill.



   B.   The user of a single-family residential property (owner
occupied without an account with the City) shall be billed by the City using
such billing procedures as established by the City.



   C.   The owner of a single-family residential property (rental)
shall be considered the user for purposes of billing by the City unless at
any time there is a renter or tenant with an account with the City.  If said
renter or tenant has an account with the City, the renter or tenant shall be
responsible for the storm water utility charge and may be billed on the same
bill as the water bill.  At any time when there is not a renter or tenant
with an account with the City, the owner of the property shall be billed by
the City using such billing procedures as established by the City.



   D.   The owners of other properties for which the owner has an
account with the City may be billed by the City on a periodic basis as
determined most efficient by the City and may be billed on the same bill as
the water bill.



   E.   The owners of other properties without an account with the City
may be billed by the City on a periodic basis as determined most efficient by
the City.



   F.   The City shall send a bill for the amount due by regular mail
to every user in the City subject to the storm water utility charge. 
Mailing to the owner of a record as shown on Carroll County's records shall
satisfy this requirement unless there is a designated occupant responsible
for payment of the storm water utility charge.



   G.   The billing period for users with a water meter account with
the City shall be on the basis of the same billing period as for water.



   H.   For all other users, the City shall determine the frequency of
the billing.



   I.   The recipient has fifteen (15) days from the billing date to
file a notice of non-responsibility.  The notice shall indicate the
relationship of the recipient to the property and whether on the imposition
date of the bill the property was occupied and if so by whom.  Upon receipt
of the notice the City shall determine who is obligated for payment.  Based
on this determination the City shall:



      (1)   Issue a new bill to the new user if the property was
owned or occupied by someone other than the original recipient.



      (2)   Reissue the bill to the recipient if it was found that
the person was the responsible party.



      (3)   Issue a bill to the owner as the user if the property
was not occupied, or if the chapter provides that the bill is appropriately
issued to the owner as the party responsible.



The City may take into account any reasonably reliable information available
to it in determining the appropriate party responsible for the billing. 
Failure to file the notice so it is actually received by the City within the
fifteen (15) days of the mailing date of the bill shall conclusively
establish that the original addressee was the user on the imposition date.



   J.   It is a violation of this chapter to knowingly provide false
information to the City regarding any fact relating to billing a storm water
utility charge or other charge of the City.



2.   Delinquency Collection, Interest and Penalties.



   A.   Charges imposed under this chapter are deemed delinquent when
they are not paid in full by the date due provided with billing for the
charge.



   B.   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter to maintain a
connection or use the storm water drainage system whether directly or
indirectly without paying the appropriate charges and fees established in
this chapter or by any rule promulgated pursuant hereto.  Even if no billing
is received, such charges shall be due and owing and the user is obligated to
pay any charges in a timely fashion.



   C.   Delinquent charges may be collected pursuant to the same
procedures as delinquent water bills.



   D.   Delinquent charges may be recovered by the City in any
appropriate manner.



   E.   The City may impose interest and penalty charges upon
delinquent charges in the same manner as delinquent water charges.



   F.   In addition to remedies provided for collection of a debt, the
City may seek a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting continued
occupancy of property requiring disconnection of the property from the storm
water utility system and termination of water and sewer service to the
user’s property.



   G.   In a collection action under this chapter the City shall be
entitled to its costs and reasonable attorney fees including at trial and on
appeal if it is the prevailing party.



   H.   In addition to the right of the City to bring a civil action to
collect any delinquent charges, or enforce any provisions of this chapter,
the City may take any of the following actions to secure payment:



      (1)   The City may refuse to issue any permit to any person
who is delinquent in any payment due under this chapter.



      (2)   The City may terminate provisions for storm and surface
water service to property used by the user.



      (3)   The City may terminate sanitary sewer service to the
property used by the user.



      (4)   The City may terminate water service to the property
used by the user.



100.07  ADOPTION OF RULES.



The City may promulgate pertaining to matters within the scope of this
section.



100.08  APPEALS.



1.   The user of any property in receipt of a storm water utility charge
under this chapter may appeal:



   A.   A determination that the property is subject to the storm water
utility charge.



   B.   A determination that the person is obligated to pay the charge
imposed herein.



   C.   Proper classification of the property as an unmeasured use or
measured use.



   D.   A determination of the measured use.  In the event of a
dispute of the measured use, the user shall provide written documentation
supporting the basis for appeal.



2.   The appeal shall be filed in writing in the office of the City
Manager.  The appeal must be received not later than thirty (30) days after
the action on which the appeal is based.



3.   The City Manager shall complete a review of the appeal and present a
written decision within thirty (30) days of the filing of the appeal.  The
written decision shall set forth the basis of the City Manager’s
determination of the appeal.



4.   In the event the City Manager determines the appeal should result in
a modification of the charge imposed, the person responsible for the charge,
or the measured use, the City shall recalculate and modify the storm water
utility charge as determined under the findings of the appeal.



5.   Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the City Manager may
appeal to Carroll County District Court by action filed within sixty (60)
days after the mailing of the ruling by the City Manager to the address of
the appellant.



6.   The filing of the appeal shall not excuse the payment of the storm
water utility charge when due.  However, the City shall refund any portion
of the charge paid subsequent to the filing of the appeal which is adjudged
to be excessive, with interest at the rate provided by law.



7.   Failure to properly exhaust the administrative remedies provided for
herein shall constitute a bar to judicial relief.



CHAPTER 105
PUBLIC SOLID WASTE COLLECTION



 



105.01  Purpose
 
105.13  Collection and Conveyance by City


105.02  Findings
 
105.14  Pre-Collection Practices


105.03  Definitions
 
105.15  City Provided Service


105.04  Health Hazard
 
105.16  Solid Waste Zones Established


105.05  Fire Hazard
 
105.17  City Direct Service Zone


105.06  Open Burning Prohibited
 
105.18  Selected Hauler Service Zone


105.07  Littering Prohibited
 
105.19  Multiple Contract Hauler Zone


105.08  Open Dumping Prohibited
 
105.20  Residential and Commercial/Industrial Service


105.09  Hazardous Wastes
 
105.21  Unpaid Fees


105.10  Waste Storage Containers
 
105.22  Savings Clause


105.11  Sanitary Disposal Required
 
105.23  Enforcement


105.12  Prohibited Practices
 
 




 



105.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that solid waste generated within
the City will be collected, transported, and deposited in an environmentally
safe manner and to ensure that the mandated reduction goals set out by the
Code of Iowa will be met.



105.02  FINDINGS.



The City makes the following specific findings:



1.   The collection of solid waste from commercial, industrial,
residential, and other establishments and premises within the City is a
matter of serious concern to the health, welfare, and safety of the citizens
of the City; and



2.   Some solid waste presently being generated within the City is being
transported to its ultimate disposal site in uncovered vehicles which allows
the garbage to fall from the vehicle onto the road during transportation,
thereby littering the road and the property adjoining the road, creating both
a health and safety hazard; and



3.   The mishandling of solid waste from residential, commercial,
industrial, and other establishments and premises in the collection and
disposal process can result in conditions which adversely affect the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City and may have a serious
detrimental impact on the quality of the environment; and



4.   The collection of solid waste within the City is an essential public
service; and



5.   To better assure compliance with the requirements of Chapters
455B.301a; 455B.302; 455B.307; 455.307a; and 455D.4, it is necessary for the
City to assume the overall responsibility for the collection of all waste
generated within its corporate boundaries and to limit collection of said
waste to the City or to such persons or companies who demonstrate that they
are capable and willing to collect said solid waste in a manner deemed by the
City to be responsible, sound and consistent with the sanitation and
environmental practices and policies established by the State of Iowa and by
the City; and



6.   The City has determined that it can best achieve the goals and
objectives of the City as set out in the findings above by one of the
following methods:



   A.   City Direct Service.  The Council may choose to provide
service directly with City equipment and City employees.



   B.   Selected Hauler Service.  The City may designate a zone as a
selected hauler zone.  Under this option, the City may receive proposals, on
terms provided by this chapter, for one or a limited number of selected
haulers.



   C.   Multiple Contract Hauler Service.  The City may determine to
offer standard contracts to haulers, for an initial contract period
determined by the City, under which any qualified hauler may, for the
contract period, enter into a nonexclusive uniform contract with the City to
provide some of the City’s service within the zone.  The City may choose
to offer contract hauler service for residential, commercial or industrial
service, or any combination of the three.  The City may enter into contracts
with multiple haulers for the same type of service within the same zone.



   D.   A combination of City Service and Private Hauler Service.  The
City may determine to provide services directly with City equipment and City
employees for a portion of the waste stream and offer standard contracts to
haulers as outlined in paragraphs B and C above.



7.   The City has a duty to encourage recycling and the proper management
of household hazardous waste.



8.   The City has a desire to ensure that commercial and industrial
hazardous wastes are also collected and disposed of according to Federal and
State law.



105.03  DEFINITIONS.



For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein.



1.   “Additional residential services” means services provided to
residential properties at the option of the property owner in return for
additional user charges.



2.   “Basic residential services” means the minimum level of services
provided to all residences within a Solid Waste Zone.



3.   “Carroll County Waste Commission” means the commission created by
the cities within Carroll County along with Carroll County pursuant to
Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa or successor statutes, for the purpose of
cooperatively coordinating and managing solid waste within the Carroll County
area.



4.   “Commercial/Industrial” means covered solid waste collection and
disposal service provided to all solid waste generators not included within
the definition of “residential service” set out in subsection 19 below,
and may also be referred to as nonresidential collection or service.



5.   “Covered solid waste” means garbage, refuse, and other municipal
solid waste from residential and nonresidential activity, including
commercial and industrial activities, but does not include the following
waste:



   A.   “Hazardous waste” as defined in this section;



   B.   Other waste determined inappropriate for collection and
conveyance by the City.  Unless otherwise determined by the City, the
following waste is determined inappropriate for collection and conveyance by
the City: incinerator ash; foundry sand; explosives; hospital, pathological,
and biological waste; chemicals and radioactive materials; oil sludge;
asbestos in identifiable quantities; cesspool or other human waste; sewage
and other highly diluted, water-carried materials or substances; materials in
gaseous form; human or animal remains; street sweepings; ash; mining waste;
sludge; and hazardous refuse of any kind, such as cleaning fluids, crank case
oils, cutting oils, paints, acids, caustics, poisons, drugs.  The City may
issue regulations adding or removing items from the list.



At the request of any person, the City may issue a binding interpretative
ruling as to whether a particular substance constitutes “covered solid
waste.”



6.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit or
drop.



7.   “Dwelling” means a building or portion thereof, designed or used
exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family,
multiple-family dwelling units, mobile homes, agricultural dwellings,
apartments, and seasonal recreational properties, but not including nursing
homes, hotels, and motels.



8.   “Dwelling unit” means one or more rooms in a dwelling designed
for occupancy by one family for living purposes and having its own
permanently installed cooking and sanitary facilities, and has its own water
meter.



9.   “Environmentally suitable manner” means disposal of mixed
municipal solid waste in a state permitted solid waste processing,
waste-to-energy, transfer or sanitary landfill disposal facility.



10.   “Hazardous waste” means refuse, sludge or other waste material
or combinations of refuse, sludge or other waste material in solid,
semi-solid, liquid or contained gaseous form which, because of its quantity,
concentration of chemical, physical or infectious characteristics may cause
or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in
serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness, or pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment
when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of or otherwise
managed.  Categories of hazardous waste materials include, but are not
limited to: explosives, flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants, and
corrosives.



11.   “Household hazardous waste” means waste generated from household
activity that exhibits the characteristics of or that is listed as hazardous
waste under State or Federal rules, but does not include waste from
commercial activities that is generated, stored or present in a household.



12.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste
materials or debris.



13.   “Open burning” means any burning of combustible materials where
the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack.



14.   “Open dumping” means the depositing of solid wastes on the
surface of the ground or into a body or stream of water.



15.   “Owner” means in addition to the record title holder any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business
in any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.



16.   “Person” means any human being, any municipality or other
governmental or political subdivision or public agency, any public or private
corporation, any partnership, firm, association, or other organization, any
receiver, trustee, assigned, agent or other legal representative of the
foregoing, or any other legal entity.



17.   “Recycling” means the process of collecting and preparing
recyclable materials and reusing the materials in their original form or
using them in manufacturing processes that do not cause the destruction of
recyclable materials in a manner that precludes further use.  It includes
yard waste composting and recycling that occurs through mechanical or hand
separation of materials.



18.   “Residential property” means all improved real property in the
City devoted to single-family residences, multiple-family dwelling units,
mobile homes or agricultural residences.



19.   “Residential service” means covered solid waste collection and
disposal service provided to dwellings with four or less dwelling units.



20.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises
as a result of residential activities.  The term includes landscape wastes
grown on the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes
tires and trade wastes.



21.   “Self hauler” means an individual generator disposing of his or
her own covered solid waste, providing that disposal is carried out in accord
with the law and applicable ordinances and in an environmentally suitable
manner.



22.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities.  Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1
of the Code of Iowa.  Solid waste does not include any of the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)



   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.



   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of
Iowa, except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific
wastes have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.



   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to lstransMonth1Day1Year1979January
1, 1979.



   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to
acceptable State or Federal standards.



105.04  HEALTH HAZARD.



It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities or solid waste,
either in containers or not, that shall constitute a health or sanitation
hazard.



105.05  FIRE HAZARD.



It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate quantities of solid
waste within or close to any buildings unless the same is stored in
containers in such a manner as not to create a fire hazard.



105.06  OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.



1.   It is unlawful for any person to allow, cause, or permit open burning
of combustible materials, except in cases where an officially declared
emergency exists, or when the open burning of diseased trees is necessary, or
when the open burning or flaring of waste gases is conducted in compliance
with applicable rules of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources,
notwithstanding any exception set out in this section.  No such burning of
any kind shall be permitted unless it is at least fifty (50) feet distant
from any building unless specifically addressed in subsection 2 below, a
working water hose is on site, and the fire is attended to at all times until
completely extinguished or burned out.  Any person wishing to conduct any
open burning if materials not permitted herein may make to the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources for a permit.  Any person burning pursuant
to a permit issued by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall not be
in violation of this section.



2.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit open fires for cooking,
heating, or recreation, provided they comply with the limits for emission of
visible contaminants established by the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources.  It is unlawful for any person to violate the following
restrictions to open burning for the purposes stated in this subsection:



   A.   A recreational fire cannot be conducted within 25 feet of a
structure unless it is contained within a manufactured “fire pit.” 
Recreational fires contained within a manufactured fire pit equipped with
appropriate screens and lids used in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions shall be placed no closer than 15 feet from a combustible
structure.



   B.   Recreational fires shall be no larger than three (3) feet in
diameter and two (2) feet in height.  Fires must be confined within a
noncombustible container device or fire ring designed for the purpose of
containing fire.



   C.   Fuel shall be limited to clean lumber, logs, charcoal, propane,
or natural gas.  The burning of garbage, treated lumber, refuse, leaves, and
landscape and construction waste is prohibited.



   D.   Any open burning shall constantly be attended by a competent
person until the fire is completely extinguished.  This person shall have
water or other approved fire extinguishing equipment readily available.  No
fire shall be allowed to smolder overnight.



   E.   No person shall kindle a fire upon the premises of another
without the permission of the owner or owner’s agent.  No recreational
fires shall be allowed on City-owned property without City Council approval.



   F.   Discontinuance.  The Fire Chief or law enforcement officers
are authorized to require that open fires or recreational fires be
immediately discontinued if determined that smoke emissions are offensive to
the occupants of surrounding property or if the fire is determined to
constitute a hazardous condition.



3.   Open burning activities for which a permit may be issued by the Fire
Chief include prescribed landscape fires for the maintenance of native
prairie grasses, ceremonial fires for groups or organizations, and fires
associated with clearing of land for development.



4.   Exceptions to the requirements of this section are Fire Department
training fires conducted in compliance with Iowa Department of Natural
Resources regulations.



105.07  LITTERING PROHIBITED.



No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized
collection and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles
provided for such purpose.  When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle,
the driver of the motor vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case
where doubt exists as to which occupant of the motor vehicle actually
discarded the litter.



105.08  OPEN DUMPING PROHIBITED.



No person shall dump or deposit or permit the dumping or depositing of any
solid waste on the surface of the ground or into a body or stream of water at
any place other than a sanitary disposal project approved by the Director of
the State Department of Natural Resources, unless a special permit to dump or
deposit solid waste on land owned or leased by such person has been obtained
from the Director of the State Department of Natural Resources.  However,
this section does not prohibit the use of rubble at places other than a
sanitary disposal project.  “Rubble” means dirt, stone, brick, or
similar inorganic materials used for beneficial fill, landscaping,
excavation, or grading at places other than a sanitary disposal project. 
Rubble includes asphalt waste only as long as it is not used in contact with
water in a floodplain.  For purposes of this section, rubble does not mean
gypsum or gypsum wallboard, coal combustion residue, foundry sand, or
industrial process wastes unless those wastes are approved by the State
Department of Natural Resources.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301, Sec. 455B.307 and IAC, 567-100.2)



105.09  HAZARDOUS WASTES.



The collection, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes shall be subject to
the following:



1.   Labeling.  All containers used for the storage, collection or
transportation of hazardous wastes shall be plainly marked so as to provide
adequate notice of the contents thereof.



2.   Vehicles and Containers.  All vehicles and containers used for the
storage, collection and transportation of hazardous wastes shall be so
constructed that they can be loaded, moved and unloaded in a manner that does
not create a danger to public health or safety and in compliance with Federal
and State laws, rules and regulations.



3.   Disposal.  No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or
otherwise offer for collection any hazardous wastes.  Such materials shall
be transported and disposed of as prescribed by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources.



105.10  WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.



Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:



1.   Container Specification.  Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:



   A.   Residential.  For single-family residential and
multiple-family dwellings where each unit is serviced by an individual water
meter, waste storage containers and recycling containers provided by the
solid waste hauler shall be used.    The total weight of any individual
container and contents shall not exceeding seventy-five (75) pounds and the
lid needs to be fully closed when left at the curb for collection.



   B.   Commercial and multi-family dwellings not serviced by an
individual water meter.  Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing
or renting any commercial and multi-family dwellings not serviced by an
individual water meter premises where an excessive amount of refuse
accumulates and where its storage in portable containers as required above is
impractical, shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the
City.



(Ord. 1707 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



2.   Location of Containers.  Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises.  Commercial solid waste containers
shall be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted
written permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. 
The storage site shall be well drained; fully accessible to collection
equipment, public health personnel and fire inspection personnel.



3.   Nonconforming Containers.  Solid waste containers which are not
adequate will be collected together with their contents and disposed of after
due notice to the owner.



105.11  SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.



Any accumulation of solid waste remaining on any premises for a period of
more than thirty (30) days shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may
proceed to abate such nuisances or by initiating proper action in district
court.



105.12  PROHIBITED PRACTICES.



It is unlawful for any person to:



1.   Unlawful Use of Containers.  Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner
of such containers.



2.   Interfere With Collectors.  Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.



3.   Radioactive Material.  Dispose of radioactive material in sanitary
disposal project.  Luminous timepieces are exempt.



4.   Unlawful Collection.  Engage in the business of collecting,
transporting, processing or disposing of solid waste within the City without
a contract therefor with the City or a valid permit therefor.



5.   Incinerators.  Burn solid waste except in approved incinerators so
maintained and operated as to prevent the emission of objectionable odors or
particulate matter.



105.13  COLLECTION AND CONVEYANCE BY CITY.



The City hereby establishes a public collection and transportation system
which shall be administered as provided by law and ordinance.  The
collection and transportation system established herein covers collection of
covered solid waste from all residential, commercial, industrial and other
properties within the City and its transport to the point of disposal.



1.   Application to all Covered Solid Waste.  All covered solid waste
generated or accumulated in the City shall be collected and conveyed to point
disposal of by the City through the public collection system, except as
expressly exempted in this chapter.  No person shall collect or convey any
covered solid waste in the City, except as expressly exempted in or
authorized by this chapter.



2.   City to Supervise Collection.  The City’s public collection and
transportation system will be managed by the City Manager.  The City has the
authority to interpret the provisions of this chapter and implement
reasonable standard policies which are consistent with the terms of this
chapter.



3.   Exception for Transport Through City.  This chapter does not
prohibit collectors or haulers of solid waste generated in, or accumulated
within, other cities, counties, or states from transporting such solid waste
for disposal through or to the City in an otherwise lawful manner.  This
exception does not relieve such collectors or haulers from complying with
other laws governing such transport or disposal.



4.   Temporary Exemption for Haulers Under Contract with the City. 
Haulers under contract with the City as of the date of adoption of the
ordinance codified in this chapter shall be exempt from this chapter during
the original term of the contract.  This exemption shall expire upon
termination or expiration of the contract.



105.14  PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.



1.   Waste Reduction.  The City is committed to encouraging waste
reduction wherever possible, and the City shall endeavor to administer this
chapter in a way it protects the environment and the public, and provides the
most practical and beneficial use of the materials and energy values of solid
waste implementing whenever possible goals set out in Chapter 455B.301a of
the Code of Iowa, to wit:



   A.   Volume reduction at the source.



   B.   Recycling and reuse.



   C.   Other approved techniques of solid waste management, including
but not limited to combustion with energy recovery, combustion for waste
disposal, and disposal at sanitary landfills.  In addition the City shall
utilize the capabilities of private enterprise as well as the services of the
City to accomplish the desired objectives of an effective solid waste
management program, in such a manner to best meet the goals for waste stream
reduction set out in Chapter 455B.3 of the Code of Iowa, including
encouraging recycling for residential and nonresidential waste generators.



2.   Prohibited Storage.  No person shall place any solid waste in any
street, alley, road, highway or other public place, or upon any private
property (whether owned by such person or not) within the City, except in
proper containers for collection under this chapter, or under express
approval granted by the City, nor shall any person throw or deposit any solid
waste in any stream or other body of water.



3.   Unauthorized Accumulation or Deposit of Solid Waste.  The
unauthorized accumulation, deposit or handling of solid waste not otherwise
covered by this chapter or successor ordinance is hereby prohibited.  The
City may, by written notification, require the owners or occupants of
property to remove any unauthorized accumulation or deposit of solid waste in
the City within a period not to exceed ten (10) days.  If the unauthorized
accumulation or deposit of solid waste is not removed within the specified
time, the City may provide for removal of the accumulation or deposit of
solid waste at the owner’s or occupant’s expense.  The City shall then
cause the expense to be a lien on the property and collected as property
taxes.  This action shall not preclude the City from seeking civil or
criminal penalties from persons responsible for unauthorized accumulations of
deposits of solid waste.



   A.   Proper Storage.  No persons shall store solid waste in such a
manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any public or
private premises.  The owner, lessee and occupant of any premises, business
establishment or industry shall be responsible for the satisfactory storage
of all solid waste accumulated at such person’s premises, business
establishment or industry.  No building, structure, area, or premises shall
be constructed or maintained for human occupancy, use or assembly without
adequate facilities for sanitary and safe storage and collection of all solid
waste.



   B.   Household Hazardous Waste and Problem Materials.  The City
residents shall be encouraged to dispose of household hazardous waste and
problem materials through a Regional Collection Center for household
hazardous waste, or other service provided through the Commission.



105.15  CITY PROVIDED SERVICE.



The City will establish Solid Waste Collection Zones for residential and
commercial and industrial waste.  The method of City collection applicable
in any zone will be established by ordinance of the Council, as described in
this chapter.



1.   Service to All Properties.  Every property shall receive, and the
owner or occupant thereof shall pay a fee for, collection and disposal of
solid waste and recyclables.  Self-hauling of covered solid waste may be
allowed, provided that the collection, transportation and disposal are
carried out in accord with the law and applicable ordinances and in an
environmentally suitable manner.



2.   Solid Waste Zones – Service Options.  As part of initial passage
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the Council will establish solid
waste zones for the City.  The Council will adopt a service option for each
zone.  In determining the appropriate option, the Council will consider the
environmental, economic and geographic circumstances of each zone and will
consider the views of residents and business.  The Council may, after notice
and hearing, from time to time adopt revisions in the service option for one
or more zones.



3.   Service Options.  In each zone, the Council may adopt any of the
following service options:



   A.   City Direct Service.  The Council may choose to provide
service directly with City equipment and City employees.



   B.   Selected Hauler Service.  The City may designate a zone as a
selected hauler zone.  Under this option, the City may receive proposals, on
terms provided by this chapter, for one or a limited number of selected
haulers.



   C.   Multiple Contract Hauler Service.  The City may determine to
offer standard contracts to haulers, for an initial contract period
determined by the City, under which any qualified hauler may, for the
contract period, enter into a nonexclusive uniform contract with the City to
provide some of the City’s service within the zone.  The City may choose
to offer contract hauler service for residential, commercial or industrial
service, or any combination of the three.  The City may enter into contracts
with multiple haulers for the same type of service within the same zone.



   D.   A Combination of City Service and Private Hauler Service.  The
City may determine to provide services directly with City equipment and City
employees for a portion of the waste stream and offer standard contracts to
haulers as outlined in paragraphs B and C above.



4.   Regional Cooperation.  Upon approval of the Council, the City may
enter into joint powers agreements pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of
Iowa, or successor statutes.



105.16  SOLID WASTE ZONES ESTABLISHED.



The following solid waste zones are hereby established.



1.   Residential Zones.  The residential zones set out in Appendix A to
this chapter are hereby adopted as the residential collection zones under
this chapter.



2.   Commercial and Industrial Zones.  The commercial and industrial
zones set out in Appendix B are hereby adopted as the commercial and
industrial zone(s) under this chapter.



3.   Resolution Determining Method of Collection and Conveyance.  The
Council may by resolution establish the mechanism for collection and
conveyance of covered solid waste for each solid waste zone.  The City may
select any of the service options described in this chapter and may by
resolution establish the fees applicable to that service.



4.   Different Service Options May Apply to Different Waste Categories. 
The City may determine that different categories of covered solid waste will
be collected using different methods of collection in the same zone.



5.   Factors Involved in Determination.  In deciding which service option
should be used in a zone, the Council may consider any factors affecting the
public interest, including environmental and public health factors and the
expressed preferences of citizens of the zone.  The Council may also
consider whether the selection provides the most economical conveyance and
best service.



105.17  CITY DIRECT SERVICE ZONE.



The City may determine that residential or nonresidential collection and
conveyance services, or both, will be provided directly by City employees
with City equipment.



105.18  SELECTED HAULER SERVICE ZONE.



The City may determine that City residential or commercial and industrial
collection and conveyance services, or both, will be provided to the City by
one or more selected private haulers operating under contract with the City;
however, there shall be no more than one hauler operation within each zone
for each type of service.



1.   Solicitation of Hauler Proposals.  In a Selected Hauler Service
Zone, the Council will select one or more contract haulers to provide
collection and conveyance services for covered solid waste.  The City may
award contracts to selected haulers for periods as specified by the
Council.  As part of the process of selecting haulers, the City may solicit
proposals for negotiated contracts from individual haulers.  Upon receipt of
proposals, the City may accept one or more of these proposals, or may
negotiate with one or more haulers to obtain new or different terms from
those originally proposed by the haulers.  The City may negotiate with
potential haulers on price and terms of service.  The contract with any
selected hauler may provide that the hauler will be the only selected hauler
for one or more classes of service, or may provide that there will be a
limited number of haulers for one or more classes of service.  Any contract
negotiated by the City must be approved by the Council.



2.   Negotiated Reimbursement Rates.  The hauler contract may establish
hauler reimbursement rates for commercial, industrial and residential
services and the City shall by ordinance establish rates for residential
services.  The City may elect to contract with different haulers for
different types of services.



3.   Additional Reimbursement.  Hauler contracts may establish separate
reimbursement rates for residential services that are additional to the basic
residential services.



4.   Designation of Customers and Routes.  Hauler contracts may provide
that selected haulers will serve all of the customers within the selected
route within the zone, or particular classifications of customers within all
or a portion of the zone.



105.19  MULTIPLE CONTRACT HAULER ZONE.



The City may designate any zone as a Multiple Contract Hauler Zone.  In a
Multiple Contract Hauler Zone, the City will provide collection and
transportation services under contract with any qualified hauler who agrees
to enter into a contract specified by the City for a contract term specified
by the City.



1.   City May Limit Classification of Waste Collected.  The City may
determine that only certain classifications of covered solid waste may be
collected by multiple contract haulers.



2.   Haulers May Serve Any Customer.  Haulers operating under contract to
serve a zone will have an equal right to serve any property within the zone,
provided that, if the contract is limited to a particular classification of
covered solid waste, the hauler may collect only that classification of
covered solid waste.  The City may require minimum levels of service, but
City contract haulers may offer differing types and qualities of service from
those of other City contract haulers.  Haulers may compete with other City
contract haulers to determine who will serve individual properties.



3.   Rates Paid by City Customer.  The multiple hauler contract will
provide that City customers will pay user fees to haulers.  Rates charged to
City customers in multiple hauler service zones will be set by haulers,
subject to any limitations which may be set in the contract with the City. 
Contract haulers may offer differing charges and schedules of rates.



4.   Procedure for Letting Contracts.  From time to time, the City may
establish the contents of contracts applicable to qualified hauler(s) within
a zone.  Contracts may be offered for terms specified by the Council.  The
City may set contract terms for residential or commercial/industrial service,
or any classification of services.



   A.   Solicitation for Proposal.  Prior to offering contracts, the
City may solicit proposals for Multiple Contract Hauler Zone contracts.  The
City may enter into negotiations with haulers to set the terms under which
haulers will sign such contracts, and the negotiations may cover price, terms
of service, and such other contract terms as the City may specify.



   B.   Conversion to Selected Hauler Zones.  If the City determines
that there is insufficient interest in entering into contracts on a multiple
hauler basis, or the Council determines that the public interest would
otherwise be served, the City may by ordinance convert a Multiple Contract
Hauler Zone to a Selected Hauler Zone and sign contracts with an individual
hauler(s) on terms authorized by this chapter.



105.20  RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL SERVICE.



This section governs the terms of City provided residential and commercial/
industrial service.



1.   Mandatory Service.  The owner or occupant of every property shall
dispose of covered solid waste by City provided collection and disposal
service, or, if a self-hauler, ensure that the disposal of covered solid
waste is carried out in an environmentally suitable manner.



   A.   City May Promulgate Regulations.  The City may from time to
time establish regulations governing the size and type of containers,
requirements for maintenance of cans, limitation of materials and placement
for collection applicable within one or more solid waste zones.  The City
may from time to time establish regulations providing that certain classes of
property or waste shall be handled as nonresidential waste, or shall be
subject to special collection and disposal requirements.



   B.   Recycling Regulations.  The City may from time to time
establish regulations governing recycling for residential and
commercial/industrial waste generators.



2.   Minimum Required City Service.  The City may establish a minimum
level of City provided service for residential and nonresidential properties
for each district.  The City may establish the amount and frequency of
service which will be received by users within the district in return for the
minimum service charge.



   A.   Minimum Service Fee.  The City may establish a minimum service
fee payable in a Solid Waste Zone.  The fee may vary within the zone
according to location, type of residence, classification of property, volume
of covered solid waste, or other relevant factors.



   B.   Billing.  Any service fee payable to the City shall be billed
in a manner established by resolution of the Council.



   C.   Fees for Services Beyond Minimum Required Service.  Haulers in
any zone may offer services beyond the minimum level of service required by
the City.  Fees for such service may be negotiated between the hauler and
the individual customer.



105.21  UNPAID FEES.



If an owner or any person obligated to pay a service fee owed to the City
fails to pay the fee in the manner prescribed, the City, for itself or on
behalf of its contractors, may recover unpaid fees due under this chapter in
any manner authorized by law, including, but not limited to, the following:



1.   Certification to the County Treasurer.  All rates or charges for
solid waste collection services owed to the City, if not paid as provided by
this chapter, shall be a lien upon the property or premises served by any of
these services, upon certification to the County Treasurer that the rates or
charges are due, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 384.84 of the Code of
Iowa.



2.   Civil Action.  In addition to each and every other remedy available
to the City, unpaid service fees, penalties and interest may be recovered in
a civil action in the name of the City or its Contractor(s).



105.22  SAVINGS CLAUSE.



In the event that court of competent jurisdiction determines that any
provision of this chapter, including any of the service options included in
this chapter, are unlawful or unauthorized by law, this chapter shall
nonetheless survive, and the City shall select service options from the
remaining options.  If any court of competent jurisdiction shall rule that
the application of any provision of this chapter is invalid to a particular
person or property, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other person or property not specifically included in the
judgment.



105.23  ENFORCEMENT.



The regulations contained in this section govern violations or threatened
violations and provide mechanisms for the City to use in attaining compliance
with this chapter.



1.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, or who knowingly makes any false statement in any document
required to be submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.  Each day that a violation occurs will constitute a separate
offense.



2.   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this
chapter, the City, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent, prosecute, restrain or abate such
violation(s) or threatened violation(s), and it shall be the duty of the City
Attorney to commence such action.



Appendix A to Chapter 105



Residential Collection Zones



Zone 1



Beginning at intersection of 6th Street and Main Street; thence northerly
along Main Street to Randall Road; then following the degree of curve of Main
Street to its intersection with Grant Road near Lakewood Drive; thence north
on Grant Road to 30th Street; thence easterly along 30th Street to a point
where 30th Street intersects with the extended line of Monterey Drive; thence
south along said extended line of Monterey Drive to the intersection of 8th
Street; thence westerly along 8th Street to the intersection of Grant Road;
thence continuing northwesterly on 8th  Street to East Street; thence
southwesterly along East Street to 6th Street, thence northwesterly along 6th
Street to the point of beginning at Main Street.



Zone 2



Beginning at a point at the intersection of Grant Road and 1st Street; thence
westerly along 1st Street to its intersection with East Street; thence
northerly along East Street to 8th Street; thence easterly along the extended
line of 8th Street to Grant Road; thence south on Grant Road to 1st Street to
the point of beginning.



Zone 3



Beginning at the intersection of Grant Road and 1st Street; thence south on
Grant Road to Pleasant Ridge Road; thence west on Pleasant Ridge Road to
Highway 71; thence north on Highway 71 to West Anthony Street; thence east on
West Anthony Street to Peeble Lane; thence following Peeble Lane to its
intersection with Main Street; thence north on Main Street to Bluff Street;
thence east on Bluff Street to Walnut Street; thence north on Walnut Street
to 1st Street; thence east on 1st Street to Grant Road to the point of
beginning.



Zone 4



Beginning at the intersection of 6th and East Street; thence following 6th
Street westerly to Highway 71; thence south along Highway 71 to the point of
intersection with the extended line of Bluff Street; thence bearing easterly
along said line of Bluff Street to Walnut Street; thence northerly on Walnut
Street to 1st Street; thence westerly on 1st Street to East Street; thence
northerly on East Street to 6th Street to the point of beginning.



Zone 5



Beginning at the intersection of 4th Street and Highway 71; thence westerly
along 4th Street to Washington Street; thence north on Washington Street to
6th Street; thence east on 6th Street to Highway 71; thence south on Highway
71 to the point of beginning.



Zone 6



Beginning at the intersection of Highway 30 and Quint Avenue; thence
northwesterly along Highway 30 to Highway 71; thence north on Highway 71 to
21st Street; thence east on 21st Street to North West Street; thence south on
North West Street to 18th Street; thence west on 18th Street to Terrace
Drive; thence south on Terrace Drive to 17th Street; thence continuing south
on Simon Avenue to 15th Street; thence west on 15th Street to Quint Avenue;
thence southerly on Quint Avenue to Highway 30, to the point of beginning.



Zone 7



Beginning at the intersection of Highway 30 and Main Street; thence westerly
along Highway 30 to Quint Avenue; thence northerly on Quint Avenue to 15th
Street; thence east on 15th Street to Simon Avenue; thence north on Simon
Avenue to 17th Street; thence continuing north on Terrace Drive to 18th
Street; thence east on 18th Street to North West Street; thence north on
North West Street to Randall Road; thence easterly on Randall Road to Main
Street; thence southerly on Main Street to Highway 30, to the point of
beginning.



Appendix B to Chapter 105



Commercial and Industrial Zone



The entire City is hereby adopted as the single Commercial and Industrial
Zone.



CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION



 

106.01  Definitions
 
106.08  Collector’s License


106.02  Collection Service
 
106.09  Separation of Yard Waste Required


106.03  Collection Vehicles
 
106.10  Mandatory Collection of Solid Waste


106.04  Loading
 
106.11  Mandatory Use of Recycling Containers


106.05  Frequency of Collection
 
106.12  Collection Fees


106.06  Location of Containers
 
106.13  Lien for Nonpayment


106.07  Right of Entry
 
 



 



106.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Collector” means any person authorized by this chapter to gather
solid waste from public and private places.



2.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used,
or are intended to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.



3.   “Multiple-family dwelling” means a structure containing more than
one dwelling unit.



4.   “Property served” means any property which is being used or
occupied and is eligible to receive solid waste collection and disposal
service as provided herein.



5.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any
multiple-family dwelling up to and including four (4) separate quarters. 
Garden type apartments and row type housing units shall be considered
residential premises regardless of the total number of such apartments or
units which may be included in a given housing development.



6.   “Single-family dwelling” means a structure containing one
dwelling unit only.



7.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves,
garden waste, brush, and trees.  Yard waste does not include tree stumps.



106.02  COLLECTION SERVICE.



The collection of solid waste within the City shall be only by collectors
licensed by the City.



106.03  COLLECTION VEHICLES.



Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall
be leakproof, durable and of easily cleanable construction.  They shall be
cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution or insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good repair.



(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])



106.04  LOADING.



Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing
or loss of material.  Where spillage does occur, the material shall be
picked up immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the
vehicle or container and the area properly cleaned.



106.05  FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.



All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week and from commercial, industrial and institutional premises as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.



106.06  LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.



Containers for the storage of solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed
out-of-doors at some easily accessible place by the owner or occupant of the
premises served, but not in the street or alley.



106.07  RIGHT OF ENTRY.



Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this
chapter; however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or
other residential buildings.



106.08  COLLECTOR’S LICENSE.



No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste other than waste produced by that
person within the City without first obtaining from the City an annual
license in accordance with the following:



1.   Application.  Application for a solid waste collector’s license
shall be made to the Clerk and provide the following:



   A.   Name and Address.  The full name and address of the applicant,
and if a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers thereof.



   B.   Equipment.  A complete and accurate listing of the number and
type of collection and transportation equipment to be used.



   C.   Collection Program.  A complete description of the frequency,
routes and method of collection and transportation to be used.



   D.   Disposal.  A statement as to the precise location and method
of disposal or processing facilities to be used.



2.   Insurance.  No collector’s license shall be issued until and
unless the applicant therefor, in addition to all other requirements set
forth, shall file and maintain with the City evidence of public liability
insurance covering all operations of the applicant pertaining to such
business and all equipment and vehicles to be operated in the conduct thereof
in such reasonable amounts as determined by the Council and in consultation
with the City’s insurance carrier.  Each insurance policy required
hereunder shall include as a part thereof provisions requiring the
applicant’s insurance carrier to notify the City of the expiration,
cancellation, or other termination of coverage not less than ten (10) days
prior to the effective date of such action. 



3.   License Fee.  A license fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per unit shall accompany the application.  In the event the requested
license is not granted, the fee paid shall be refunded to the applicant.



4.   License Issued.  If the Council upon investigation finds the
application to be in order and determines that the applicant will collect,
transport, process or dispose of solid waste without hazard to the public
health or damage to the environment and in conformity with law and ordinance,
the requested license shall be issued to be effective for a period of one
year from the date approved.



5.   License Renewal.  An annual license may be renewed simply upon
payment of the required fee, provided the applicant agrees to continue to
operate in substantially the same manner as provided in the original
application and provided the applicant furnishes the Clerk with a current
listing of vehicles, equipment and facilities in use. 



6.   License Not Transferable.  No license authorized by this chapter may
be transferred to another person. 



7.   Owner May Transport.  Nothing herein is to be construed so as to
prevent the owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises
owned, occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of
properly in an approved sanitary disposal project. 



8.   Grading or Excavation Excepted.  No license or permit is required
for the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading
or excavation activities; however, all such materials shall be conveyed in
tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none
of the material being transported spills upon any public right-of-way.



106.09  SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.



All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
garbage and refuse accumulated on the premises and shall be composted on the
premises or placed in degradable bags, containers or packages and set out for
collection by a private hauler, or taken to the County Landfill.



106.10  MANDATORY COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.



All residential units within the City shall dispose of their solid waste by
depositing it in proper containers which are to be placed at curb side for
collection by licensed haulers having a contract with the City.



106.11  MANDATORY USE OF RECYCLING CONTAINERS.



All residential units within the City shall use the recycling containers
furnished by the Solid Waste Management Commission, and shall deposit in the
container those items listed by the Solid Waste Management Commission.  The
recycling containers will be placed at curb side along with their other solid
waste containers, to be collected by licensed haulers having contracts with
the City. 



106.12  COLLECTION FEES.



The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter is
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees therefor in accordance with the
following:



1.   Schedule of Fees.



   A.   Effective August 1, 2017, the fee for refuse collection and
disposal service, used or available, shall be:



      (1)   For each single-family residence $13.33 monthly.  One
additional trash cart can be requested for an additional $13.33 monthly fee.



      (2)   For each dwelling unit of a multiple-family dwelling
serviced by an individual water meter $13.33 monthly. One additional trash
cart can be requested for an additional $13.33 monthly fee.



   B.   Effective July 1, 2021, the fee for refuse collection and
disposal service, used or available, shall be:



      (1)   For each single-family residence $13.83 monthly.  One
additional trash cart can be requested for an additional $13.83 monthly fee.



      (2)   For each dwelling unit of a multiple-family dwelling
serviced by an individual water meter $13.83 monthly. One additional trash
cart can be requested for an additional $13.83 monthly fee.



   C.   Effective July 1, 2023, the fee for refuse collection and
disposal service, used or available, shall be:



      (1)   For each single-family residence $14.58 monthly.  One
additional trash cart can be requested for an additional $14.58 monthly fee.



      (2)   For each dwelling unit of a multiple-family dwelling
serviced by an individual water meter $14.58 monthly. One additional trash
cart can be requested for an additional $14.58 monthly fee.



2.   Additional Fees.  For every dollar of increase in tipping fees over
$46.00 per ton charged by Carroll County Solid Waste Management Commission
shall result in a $0.07 increase in the monthly rates listed as part of the
Schedule of Fees in Section 106.12 (1).



(Ord. 1707 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



3.   Billing.  All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section 92.06 of this Code of Ordinances.  Solid waste collection service
may be discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.07 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section 92.15 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the
event of a delinquent account.  In all cases where the unit or premises is
served by City water, the charges shall be made against the person or owner
in whose name the water meter is registered.  Nothing in this subsection
shall be interpreted to mean that a residence not served by City water is
exempt in any manner or way from the schedule of fees for the collection of
disposable service.



106.13  LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.



The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof are jointly
and severally liable for fees for solid waste collection and disposal.  Fees
remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the premises
served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for
collection in the same manner as property taxes. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)



CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE



 

110.01  Franchise Granted
 
110.06  Nonexclusive


110.02  Mains and Pipes; Indemnification
 
110.07  Term of Franchise


110.03  Excavations
 
110.08  Mapping Information


110.04  Construction and Maintenance
 
110.09  Entire Agreement


110.05  Service Requirements
 
 



 



110.01  FRANCHISE GRANTED



There is hereby granted to INTERSTATE POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the right,
franchise and privilege for the term of twenty-five (25) years, subject to a
limited right of cancellation at the end of the fifteenth (15th) year
anniversary of the Anniversary Date as defined within, from and after the
passage, adoption, approval and acceptance of the ordinance codified by this
chapter† 4 , to lay down, maintain and operate the necessary pipes, mains
and other conductors and appliances in, along and under the streets, avenues,
alleys and public places in the City, as now or hereafter constituted for the
purpose of distributing, supplying and selling gas to the City and the
residents thereof and to persons and corporations beyond the limits thereof,
and the right of eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of
Iowa.  The term “gas” as used in this franchise shall be construed to
mean natural gas only.



110.02  MAINS AND PIPES; INDEMNIFICATION.



The mains and pipes of the Company must be so placed as not to interfere
unnecessarily with water pipes, drains, sewers and fire plugs which have been
or may hereafter be placed in any street, alley and public places in said
City nor unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same, including
ordinary drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe and other property of
the City, and the Company, its successors and assigns shall hold the City
free and harmless from all damages arising from the negligent acts or
omissions of the Company in the laying down, operation and maintenance of
said natural gas distribution system.



110.03  EXCAVATIONS.



In making any excavations in any street, alley, avenue or public place,
Company, its successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in
progress by guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the
use of the streets, shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent
settling or depressions in surface, and shall replace the surface, pavement
or sidewalk of such excavations with same materials, restoring the condition
as nearly as practical and if defects are caused shall repair the same.



110.04  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.



The Company shall, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
facilities or equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in
the City in such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for
the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or
repair of the street or alley or any public improvement of, in or about any
such street or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any
such improvement.  If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate
its existing facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a commercial
or private project, or as the result of the initial request of a commercial
or private developer or other non-public entity, and such relocation is
necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
City or other non-public entity, the Company shall receive payment for the
cost of such relocation as a precondition to relocating its existing
facilities or equipment.  The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in
designing its public works projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the
Company unreasonable additional expense in exercising its authority under
this section.  The City shall also provide a reasonable alternative location
for the Company’s facilities.  The City shall give the Company reasonable
advance written notice to vacate a public right-of-way.  Vacating a public
right-of-way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and
maintain existing facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the
same are paid to the Company.



110.05  SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.



Said Company, its successors and assigns, shall throughout the term of the
franchise distribute to all consumers gas of good quality and shall furnish
uninterrupted service, except as interruptible service may be specifically
contracted for with consumers; provided, however, that any prevention of
service caused by fire, act of God or unavoidable event or accident shall not
be a breach of this condition if the Company resumes service as quickly as is
reasonably practical after the happening of the act causing the interruption.



110.06  NONEXCLUSIVE.



The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.



110.07  TERM OF FRANCHISE.



The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights thereunder
shall continue for the period of 25 years from the after its acceptance by
the Company, as herein provided.  The City may cancel this franchise on the
15th year anniversary of the Anniversary Date of this franchise by notifying
Company in writing of its desire to do so, said notification to be given
within 30 days of the 15th anniversary respectively of this franchise.  If
Company is not notified of the cancellation by the 15th anniversary, then
this franchise shall continue without cancellation until the 25th year.  The
Anniversary Date shall be the date this franchise is filed with the City
Clerk or otherwise effective by operation of law.



110.08  MAPPING INFORMATION.



Upon reasonable request the Company shall timely provide to the City, on a
project specific basis, detailed maps and information indicating the
horizontal location, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of all
equipment which it owns or over which it has control and which is located in
the project right-of-way.  Mapping information provided shall be for the
exclusive use of the City in the administering the use and occupancy of the
public rights-of-way within the City and shall not be provided to or relied
on by any person of any other purpose.  At the request of the City, mapping
information will be reviewed with the City staff.  Prior to any excavation
by the City, or its agents, in addition to its responsibilities under the
current Iowa One-Call System, or any successor system, City representatives
must contact the Company regarding current information on the location of
underground natural gas lines in the area concerned.  Prior to excavating in
the rights-of-way both parties shall contact and shall follow the procedures
therefor of the corporation organized pursuant to Iowa Code Chapter 480 or an
entity with a similar function utilized by both the City and the Company,
currently the Iowa One-Call System.  The shared section of map will be for
information only, not for construction purposes, and cannot be reproduced or
distributed.  Any map or section thereof provided to City must be returned
immediately to Company upon completion of project.  All requests for Company
maps must follow Company processes and applicable State and Federal
regulations and protocols.



110.09  ENTIRE AGREEMENT.



This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City of Carroll with respect to the rights contained herein,
and may not be superceded, modified or otherwise amended without the approval
and acceptance of the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event
shall the City of Carroll enact any ordinance or place any limitations,
either operationally or through the assessment of fees that create additional
burdens upon the Company or which delay utility operations.



 


Notes

4 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 0808 adopting a natural gas franchise for
the City was passed and adopted on June 23, 2008.

 



CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE



 

111.01  Franchise Granted
 
111.05  Powers of City


111.02  Eminent Domain
 
111.06  Moving Poles and Wires


111.03  Construction Standards
 
111.07  Indemnification of City


111.04  Trees
 
 



 



111.01  FRANCHISE GRANTED.



Midwest Power, a division of Midwest Power Systems Inc., a corporation, its
successors and assigns, are hereby granted and vested with the right,
franchise, and privilege, as provided by law, to acquire, construct, operate,
and maintain in the City the necessary facilities for the production,
distribution, transmission, and sale of electric energy for public and
private use and to construct and maintain along, upon, across and under the
streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges and public places the necessary
fixtures and equipment for such purposes.  The term of this franchise grant
will be 25 years, provided however, that there may be a re-evaluation after
15 years with the opportunity for both parties to request amendments.  If
neither party requests such re-evaluation by March 1, 2010, then this
franchise will continue without change for the remaining 10 years through May
15, 2020.† 5



111.02  EMINENT DOMAIN.



As a part of this grant of franchise, Midwest Power is further granted the
right of eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to City Council
approval, upon application by Midwest Power.



111.03  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.



All construction, exclusive of distance from buildings, shall be in
compliance with the standards of the Iowa Electrical Safety Code as adopted
by the Iowa Utilities Board.  Midwest Power shall maintain its facilities in
good repair so as to furnish efficient electric service.



111.04  TREES.



Midwest Power shall have the right to trim or remove trees when reasonably
necessary to efficiently operate its plant and render service.



111.05  POWERS OF CITY.



This franchise shall not be exclusive and shall not restrict in any manner
the right of the City Council or any other governing body of the City in the
exercise of any regulatory power which it may now have, or hereafter be
authorized or permitted, by the laws of the State.



111.06  MOVING POLES AND WIRES.



Midwest Power shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the City, temporarily move any of its poles, wires,
crossarms, guy wires, transformers, and other equipment, to permit the moving
of buildings.  The expense of such temporary moves shall be paid in advance
by the person requesting same.  Midwest Power shall be given not less than
seven days’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary moves of its
poles, wires, crossarms, guy wires, transformers, and other equipment.



111.07  INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.



Midwest Power shall fully protect said City and hold it harmless from any and
all claims of any nature whatsoever which may be made against the City
arising from or growing out of Midwest Power’s fault in the construction,
maintenance or operation of said distribution system and transmission
lines.  This shall include all claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or
expenses including attorney fees, caused by the fault of Midwest Power on
account of injury or damage to any person or property, caused or occasioned,
or allegedly caused or occasioned, by reason of or arising out of the fault
of Midwest Power.  However, Midwest Power shall not be obliged to defend,
protect and save the City harmless for any costs or damages arising from the
sole fault of the City.



 


Notes

5 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 9506 adopting an electric franchise for
the City was passed and adopted on March 27, 1995.



CHAPTER 112
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE



 



112.01  Definitions
 
112.21  Rates and Charges


112.02  Grant
 
112.22  Renewal of Franchise


112.03  Other Ordinances
 
112.23  Conditions of CityplaceSale


112.04  Other Authorizations
 
112.24  Transfer of Franchise


112.05  Conditions of Occupancy
 
112.25  Performance Evaluation Hearings/Periodic Reviews


112.06  Restoration of Public Ways
 
112.26  Automatic Term Extension


112.07  Relocation for the City
 
112.27  Books and Records


112.08  Relocation for a Third Party
 
112.28  Insurance Requirements


112.09  Trimming of Trees and Shrubbery
 
112.29  Indemnification


112.10  Safety Requirements
 
112.30  Notice of Violation


112.11  Underground Construction
 
112.31  Grantee’s Right to Cure or Respond


112.12  Access to Open Trenches
 
112.32  Public Hearing


112.13  Required Extensions of the Cable Service
 
112.33  Enforcement


112.14  Subscriber Charges for Extensions of Service
 
112.34  Revocation


112.15  Cable Service to Public Buildings
 
112.35  Force Majeure


112.16  Emergency Alert
 
112.36  Actions of Parties


112.17  Reimbursement of Costs
 
112.37  Entire Agreement


112.18  Educational and Government Access
 
112.38  Reservation of Rights


112.19  Maps
 
112.39  Notice


112.20  Franchise Fee
 
112.40  Term




 



112.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following words and phrases, when used herein, shall, for the purposes of
this chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:



1.   “Basic cable” is the lowest priced tier of cable service that
includes the retransmission of local broadcast television signals.



2.   “Cable Act” means Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended.



3.   “Cable services” means:  (i) the one-way transmission to
subscribers of video programming or other programming service; and (ii)
subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or use of
such video programming or any other programming service.



4.   “Cable system” means the Grantee’s facility, consisting of a
set of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception
and control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which
includes video programming and which is provided to multiple customers within
the service area.



5.   “FCC” means Federal Communications Commission or successor
governmental entity thereto.



6.   “Grantee” means MCC Iowa LLC, or the lawful successor, transferee
or assignee thereof.



8.   “Gross revenue” means any revenues received from the operation of
the cable system to provide cable services in the service area, provided,
however, that gross revenues shall not include franchise fees, the FCC user
fee, any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability collected by the
Grantee from subscribers for pass-through to a government agency.



9.   “Person” means an individual, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, corporation or governmental entity.



10.   “Public way” means the surface of, and the space above and below
any public street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court,
boulevard, sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other
public right-of-way, including, but not limited to, public utility easements,
dedicated utility strips or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses now
or hereafter held by the City in the service area which shall entitle the
Grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating,
repairing and maintaining the cable system. 



11.   “Service area” means the present boundaries of the City and
includes any additions thereto by annexation or other legal means, subject to
the exceptions in Section 112.13.



12.   “Standard installation” is defined as 125 feet from the nearest
tap to the subscriber’s terminal.



13.   “Subscriber” means a person who lawfully receives cable service
of the cable system with the Grantee’s express permission.



14.   “Tap” means the equipment on the cable plant where a coaxial
cable subscriber drop is connected.



112.02  GRANT.



The City hereby grants to the Grantee a nonexclusive franchise which
authorizes the Grantee to construct and operate a cable system in, along,
among, upon, across, above, over, under or in any manner connected with
public ways within the service area and for that purpose to erect, install,
construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain or retain in, on, over,
under, upon, across or along any public way such facilities and equipment as
may be necessary or appurtenant to the cable system for the transmission and
distribution of cable services, data services, information and other
communications services or for any other lawful purposes. 



112.03  OTHER ORDINANCES.



The Grantee agrees to comply with the terms of any lawfully adopted generally
applicable local ordinance, to the extent that the provisions of the
ordinance do not have the effect of limiting the benefits or expanding the
obligations of the Grantee that are granted by this franchise.  Neither
party may unilaterally alter the materials rights and obligations set forth
in this franchise.  In the event of a conflict between any ordinance as of
the effective date of the franchise and this franchise, the franchise shall
control.



112.04  OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.



The City shall not permit any person to provide services similar to those
provided by the Grantee in the service area without first having secured a
non-exclusive franchise from the City.  The City agrees that any grant of
additional franchises or other authorizations including OVS authorizations by
the City to provide services similar to those provided by the Grantee
pursuant to this agreement to any other entity shall cover the entire service
area and shall not be on terms and conditions more favorable or less
burdensome to the grantee of any such additional franchise or other
authorization than those which are set forth herein.  In any renewal of the
franchise, the City, should it seek to impose increased obligations upon the
Grantee, must take into account any additional franchise(s) or authorizations
previously granted and find that the proposed increased obligations in the
renewal are not more burdensome and/or less favorable than those contained in
any such additional franchise(s) or authorizations. 



112.05  CONDITIONS OF OCCUPANCY.



The cable system installed by the Grantee pursuant to the terms hereof shall
be located so as to cause a minimum of interference with the proper use of
public ways and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners
who own property that adjoins any such public ways.



112.06  RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS.



If during the course of Grantee’s construction, operation or maintenance of
the cable system there occurs a disturbance of any public way by the Grantee,
the Grantee shall replace and restore such public way to a condition
reasonably comparable to the condition of the public way existing immediately
prior to such disturbance.  Grantee will comply with the City Code of
Ordinances Chapter 148 concerning rights-of-way.



112.07  RELOCATION FOR THE CITY.



Upon its receipt of reasonable advance notice, to be not less than ten (10)
business days, the Grantee shall protect, support, raise, lower, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in or remove from the public way any property of the
Grantee when lawfully required by the City by reason of traffic conditions,
public safety, street abandonment, freeway and street construction, change or
establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas or water
pipes or any other type of public structures or improvements which are not
used to compete with the Grantee’s services.  The Grantee shall in all
cases have the right of abandonment of its underground property, subject to
proper disposal and financial responsibility for abandoned property.



112.08  RELOCATION FOR A THIRD PARTY.



The Grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a lawful permit
issued by the City, protect, support, raise, lower, temporarily disconnect,
relocate in or remove from the public way as necessary any property of the
Grantee, provided:  (i) the expense of such is paid by the person benefiting
from the relocation, including, if required by the Grantee, making such
payment in advance; and (ii) the Grantee is given reasonable advance written
notice to prepare for such changes.  For purposes of this subsection,
“reasonable advance written notice” shall be no less than 30 business
days in the event of a temporary relocation, and no less than 120 days for a
permanent relocation.



112.09  TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.



The Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees or other natural growth in
order to access and maintain the cable system.



112.10  SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.



Construction, operation and maintenance of the cable system shall be
performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner.  All such work shall be
performed in substantial accordance with generally applicable Federal, State
and local regulations and the National Electric Safety Code. 



112.11  UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION.



In those areas of the service area where all of the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing
telephone communications and electric services are underground, the Grantee
likewise shall construct, operate and maintain all of its cable system
underground.  Nothing contained in this section shall require the Grantee to
construct, operate and maintain underground any ground-mounted appurtenances.



112.12  ACCESS TO OPEN TRENCHES.



The City agrees to include the Grantee in the platting process for any new
subdivision.  At a minimum, the City agrees to require as a condition of
issuing a permit for open trenching to any utility or developer that:  (i)
the utility or developer give the Grantee at least ten (10) days’ advance
written notice of the availability of the open trench; and (ii) the utility
or developer provide the Grantee with reasonable access to the open trench. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee shall not be required to utilize
any open trench.



112.13  REQUIRED EXTENSIONS OF THE CABLE SYSTEM.



Grantee agrees to provide cable service to all residences in the service area
subject to the density requirements specified in this section.  Whenever the
Grantee receives a request for cable service from a potential subscriber in a
unserved area contiguous to Grantee’s existing distribution facilities
where there are at least 10 residences within 1320 cable-bearing strand feet
(one-quarter cable mile) from the portion of the Grantee’s trunk or
distribution cable which is to be extended, it shall extend its cable system
to such subscribers at no cost to said subscribers for cable system
extension, other than the published standard/non-standard installation fees
charged to all subscribers.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee
shall have the right, but not the obligation, to extend the cable system into
any portion of the service area where another operator is providing cable
service, into any annexed area which is not contiguous to the present service
area of the Grantee, or into any area which is financially or technically
infeasible due to extraordinary circumstances, such as a runway or freeway
crossing.



112.14  SUBSCRIBER CHARGES FOR EXTENSIONS OF SERVICE.



No subscriber shall be refused service arbitrarily.  However, if an area
does not meet the density requirements of Section 112.13, the Grantee shall
only be required to extend the cable system to subscriber(s) in that area if
the subscriber(s) are willing to share the capital costs of extending the
cable system.  Specifically, the Grantee shall contribute a capital amount
equal to the construction cost per mile, multiplied by a fraction whose
numerator equals the actual number of residences per 1,320 cable-bearing
strand feet from the Grantee’s trunk or distribution cable, and whose
denominator equals 10.  Subscribers who request service hereunder will bear
the remaining cost to extend the cable system on a pro rata basis.  The
Grantee may require that payment of the capital contribution in aid of
construction borne by such potential subscribers be paid in advance. 
Subscribers shall also be responsible for any standard/non-standard
installation charges to extend the cable system from the tap to the residence.



112.15  CABLE SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.



The Grantee, upon request, shall provide without charge a standard
installation and one outlet of basic cable to those administrative buildings
owned or occupied by the City, fire station(s), police station(s) and K-12
school(s), and accredited private schools with regular attendance exceeding
50 students that are passed by its cable system.  The cable service provided
shall not be distributed beyond the originally installed outlet without
authorization from the Grantee.  The cable service provided shall not be
used for commercial purposes and such outlets shall not be located in areas
open to the public.  The City shall take reasonable precautions to prevent
any inappropriate use of the Grantee’s cable system or any loss or damage
to the cable system.  The City shall hold the Grantee harmless from any and
all liability or claims arising out of the provision and use of cable service
required by this section.  The Grantee shall not be required to provide an
outlet to such buildings where a non-standard installation is required,
unless the City or building owner/occupant agrees to pay the incremental cost
of any necessary cable system extension and/or non-standard installation. 
If additional outlets of basic cable are provided to such buildings, the
building owner/occupant shall pay the usual installation and service fees
associated therewith.



112.16  EMERGENCY ALERT.



An Emergency Alert System (“EAS”) provided by Grantee shall be operated
in accordance with FCC regulations.



112.17  REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.



If funds are available to any person using the public way for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, the City shall reimburse the
Grantee in the same manner in which other persons affected by the requirement
are reimbursed.  If the funds are controlled by another governmental entity,
the City shall make application for such funds on behalf of the Grantee.



112.18  EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENT ACCESS.



Grantee shall continue to provide the City with one (1) access channel on the
cable system designated for education or government access purposes.  Such
channel shall continue to be originated from Carroll Broadcasting, Inc. and
operated by 10 TV.



The Grantee shall provide a second access channel upon written request form
the City.  The Grantee shall complete the necessary construction to activate
the channel no later than 6 months from the date of the request if no cable
plant extension construction if required or no later than April 30 of the
subsequent calendar year following the request by the City if a cable plant
extension is required.  The channel shall be originated from a location in
the service area as requested by the City.  The Grantee shall be responsible
for all construction costs to originate programming for the second access
channel up to a maximum amount of $10,000.  The Grantee shall provide the
City a one-time capital grant of $15,000 for capital equipment and facilities
for access no later than January 31 of the calendar year following written
request for the second channel from the City.  The access channels are made
available to the City by the Grantee for the purpose of cablecasting
non-commercial programming by City residents, City administration and
educational institutions.  The City agrees not to use the access channel to
provide commercial or revenue-generating services or services that may
compete, directly or indirectly, with services provided by the Company,
provided, however, that the City may cablecast acknowledgments of funding
sources and the underwriting of programming costs.



112.19  MAPS.



The Grantee shall provide the City with as-built maps of the Grantee’s
cable system in the rights-of-way of the service area upon written request of
the City.  The maps shall demonstrate the location of the Grantee’s cable
plant to assist the City in managing the public rights-of-way.  The maps
shall not provide proprietary design information or other confidential
information.



112.20  FRANCHISE FEE.



1.   The Grantee shall pay to the City a franchise fee of three percent
(3%) of annual gross revenues (as defined in Section 112.01 of this
chapter).  In accordance with the Cable Act, the 12-month period applicable
under the franchise for the computation of the franchise fee shall be a
calendar year.  The franchise fee payment shall be due semi-annually and
payable within 90 days after the close of the preceding period.  Each
payment shall be accompanied by a brief report prepared by a representative
of the Grantee showing the basis for the computation. 



2.   Limitation on Franchise Fee Actions.  The period of limitation for
recovery by the City of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be three
(3) years from the date on which payment by the Grantee is due to the City. 



112.21  RATES AND CHARGES.



The City may regulate rates for the provision of basic cable and equipment as
expressly permitted by Federal law.



112.22  RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE.



1.   The City and the Grantee agree that any proceedings undertaken by the
City that relate to the renewal of the Grantee’s franchise shall be
governed by and comply with the provisions of Federal law.



2.   In addition to the procedures set forth in the Cable Act, the City
agrees to notify the Grantee of its assessments regarding the identity of
future cable-related community needs and interests, as well as the past
performance of the Grantee under the then current franchise term.  The City
further agrees that such assessments shall be provided to the Grantee
promptly so that the Grantee has adequate time to submit a proposal pursuant
to the Cable Act and complete renewal of the franchise prior to expiration of
its term. 



3.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this section,
the Grantee and the City agree that at any time during the term of the then
current franchise, while affording the public appropriate notice and
opportunity to comment in accordance with the provisions of Federal law, the
City and Grantee may agree to undertake and finalize informal negotiations
regarding renewal of the then current franchise and the City may grant a
renewal thereof. 



112.23  CONDITIONS OF SALE.



If a renewal or extension of Grantee’s franchise is denied or the franchise
is lawfully terminated, and the City either lawfully acquires ownership of
the cable system or by its actions lawfully effects a transfer of ownership
of the cable system to another party, any such acquisition or transfer shall
be at the price determined pursuant to the provisions set forth in Section
627 of the Cable Act.  The Grantee and the City agree that in the case of a
final determination of a lawful revocation of the franchise, the Grantee
shall be given at least twelve (12) months to effectuate a transfer of its
cable system to a qualified third party.  Furthermore, the Grantee shall be
authorized to continue to operate pursuant to the terms of its prior
franchise during this period.  If, at the end of that time, the Grantee is
unsuccessful in procuring a qualified transferee or assignee of its cable
system which is reasonably acceptable to the City, the Grantee and City may
avail themselves of any rights they may have pursuant to Federal or State
law.  It is further agreed that the Grantee’s continued operation of its
cable system during the twelve-month period shall not be deemed to be a
waiver, nor an extinguishment of, any rights of either the City or the
Grantee.



112.24  TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.



The Grantee’s right, title or interest in the franchise shall not be sold,
transferred, assigned or otherwise encumbered, other than to an entity
controlling, controlled by or under common control with the Grantee, without
prior written notice to the City.  No such notice shall be required,
however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other hypothecation, or by
assignment of any rights, title or interest of the Grantee in the franchise
or cable system in order to secure indebtedness. 



112.25  PERFORMANCE EVALUATION HEARINGS/PERIODIC REVIEWS.



On the fifth and ninth anniversaries of the effective date of the franchise,
the City may require a review of this franchise, subject to the following:



1.   Any such review shall be open to the public and announced in a
official City newspaper.  The Grantee shall reasonably notify its local
subscribers of review sessions by announcing same through either public
notices or inserts in subscribers’ billing statements.



2.   Topics to be discussed at any scheduled review session may include,
but will not be limited to, franchise fees; free or discounted services;
application of new technologies; system performance; services provided;
programming offered; customer complaints; privacy; amendments to this
chapter; judicial and FCC rulings; line extension policies; and existing or
prospective rules or regulations of the Grantee or the City.



3.   Members of the general public may add topics by requesting of the
City such topics be added to the agenda of its meeting.



4.   During  review or evaluation by the City, the Grantee shall fully
cooperate with the City and shall provide such non-confidential information
and documents as the City may need to reasonably perform the review.



5.   As a result of the review, the City and Grantee may determine that a
change in the terms of the franchise may be necessary, that the cable system
or franchise requirement should be updated, changed, revised or that
additional services should be provided.  If the change is consistent with
the terms of this franchise and implementation of the change would not
unreasonably add to the cost of providing cable services, Grantee and the
City will change the agreement upon mutual agreement.



112.26  AUTOMATIC TERM EXTENSION.



The term of this franchise shall be automatically extended for an additional
five years for a total term length of fifteen (15) years if the Grantee is
determined to be in compliance with the material terms and conditions of the
franchise agreement upon completion of the performance review to be completed
on or about the ninth anniversary of the effective date of the franchise. †
6



112.27  BOOKS AND RECORDS.



The Grantee agrees that the City, upon 30 days’ written notice to the
Grantee and no more than once annually, may review such of its books and
records at the Grantee’s business office, during normal business hours and
on a non-disruptive basis, as is reasonably necessary to ensure compliance
with the terms of this franchise.  Such notice shall specifically reference
the section of the franchise which is under review, so that the Grantee may
organize the necessary books and records for easy access by the City. 
Alternatively, if the books and records are not easily accessible at the
local office of the Grantee, the Grantee may, at its sole option, choose to
pay the reasonable travel costs of the City’s representative to view the
books and records at the appropriate location.  The Grantee shall not be
required to maintain any books and records for franchise compliance purposes
longer than three (3) years.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set
forth herein, the Grantee shall not be required to disclose information which
it reasonably deems to be proprietary or confidential in nature, nor disclose
books and records of any affiliate which is not providing cable service in
the service area.  The City agrees to treat any information disclosed by the
Grantee as confidential and only to disclose it to employees, representatives
and agents thereof that have a need to know, or in order to enforce the
provisions hereof.  The Grantee shall not be required to provide subscriber
information in violation of Section 631 of the Cable Act.



112.28  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.



The Grantee shall maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and
expense, during the term of the franchise.  The City shall be designated as
an additional insured and such insurance shall be non-cancellable except upon
30 days’ prior written notice to the City.  Upon written request the
Grantee shall provide a Certificate of Insurance showing evidence of the
coverage required by this section.



112.29  INDEMNIFICATION.



The Grantee agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless and defend the City,
its officers, boards and employees, from and against any liability for
damages and for any liability or claims resulting from property damage or
bodily injury (including accidental death) which arise out of the Grantee’s
construction, operation or maintenance of its cable system in the service
area, provided that the City shall give the Grantee written notice of its
obligation to indemnify the City within ten (10) days of receipt of a claim
or action pursuant to this section.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Grantee shall not indemnify the City for any damages, liability or claims
resulting from the willful misconduct or negligence of the City.



112.30  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.



In the event that the City believes that the Grantee has not complied with
any material term of the franchise, the City shall informally discuss the
matter with Grantee.  If these discussions do not lead to resolution of the
problem, the City shall notify the Grantee in writing of the exact nature of
the alleged noncompliance. 



112.31  GRANTEE’S RIGHT TO CURE OR RESPOND.



The Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice described
in Section 112.21 to: (i) respond to the City contesting the assertion of
noncompliance; or (ii) to cure such default; or (iii) in the event that, by
the nature of the default, such default cannot be cured within the thirty-day
period, initiate reasonable steps to remedy such default and notify the City
of the steps being taken and the projected date that they will be completed. 



112.32  PUBLIC HEARING.



In the event that the Grantee fails to respond to the notice as described in
Section 112.30 pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 112.31, or in
the event that the alleged default is not remedied within thirty (30) days or
the date projected pursuant to Section 112.31(iii) above, if it intends to
continue its investigation into the default, then the City shall schedule a
public hearing.  The City shall provide the Grantee at least ten (10)
days’ prior written notice of such hearing, which specifies the time, place
and purpose of such hearing and provide the Grantee the opportunity to be
heard.



112.33  ENFORCEMENT.



Subject to applicable Federal and State law, in the event the City, after the
hearing set forth in 112.32, determines that the Grantee is in default of any
provision of the franchise, the City may:



1.   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other
equitable relief; or



2.   In the case of repeated or ongoing substantial noncompliance with a
material term or terms of the franchise, seek to revoke the franchise in
accordance with Section 112.34.



112.34  REVOCATION.



Should the City seek to revoke the franchise after following the procedures
set forth in Sections 112.30 – 112.33, the City shall give written notice
to the Grantee of its intent.  The notice shall set forth the exact nature
of the repeated or ongoing substantial noncompliance with a material term or
terms of the franchise.  The Grantee shall have 60 days from such notice to
object in writing and to state its reasons for such objection.  In the event
the City has not received a satisfactory response from the Grantee, it may
then seek termination of the franchise at a public meeting.  The City shall
cause to be served upon the Grantee, at least thirty (30) days prior to such
public meeting, a written notice specifying the time and place of such
meeting and stating its intent to revoke the franchise.  At the designated
hearing, Grantee shall be provided a fair opportunity for full participation,
including the right to be represented by legal counsel, to introduce relevant
evidence, to require the production of evidence, to compel the relevant
testimony of the officials, agents, employees or consultants of the City, to
compel the testimony of other persons as permitted by law, and to question
witnesses.  A complete verbatim record and transcript shall be made of such
hearing.  Following the hearing, the City shall determine whether or not the
franchise shall be revoked.  If the City determines that the franchise shall
be revoked, the City shall promptly provide Grantee with its decision in
writing.  The Grantee may appeal such determination to an appropriate court,
which shall have the power to review the decision of the City de novo. 
Grantee shall be entitled to such relief as the court finds appropriate. 
Such appeal must be taken within sixty (60) days of the Grantee’s receipt
of the determination of the City.  The City may, at its sole discretion,
take any lawful action which it deems appropriate to enforce the City’s
rights under the franchise in lieu of revocation of the franchise.



112.35  FORCE MAJEURE.



The Grantee shall not be held in default under or in noncompliance with the
provisions of the franchise or suffer any enforcement or penalty relating to
noncompliance or default, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults
occurred or were caused by circumstances reasonably beyond the ability of the
Grantee to anticipate and control.  This provision includes work delays
caused by waiting for utility providers to service or monitor their utility
poles to which Grantee’s cable system is attached, as well as
unavailability of materials and/or qualified labor to perform the work
necessary.  Furthermore, the parties hereby agree that it is not the
City’s intention to subject the Grantee to penalties, fines, forfeitures or
revocation of the franchise for violations of the franchise where the
violation was a good faith error that resulted in no or minimal negative
impact on the subscriber within the service area, or where strict performance
would result in practical difficulties and hardship to the Grantee which
outweigh the benefit to be derived by the City and/or subscribers.



112.36  ACTIONS OF PARTIES.



In any action by the City or the Grantee that is mandated or permitted under
the terms hereof, such party shall act in a reasonable, expeditious and
timely manner.  Furthermore, in any instance where approval or consent is
required under the terms hereof, such approval or consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld.



112.37  ENTIRE AGREEMENT.



This franchise constitutes the entire agreement between the Grantee and the
City and supersedes all other prior understandings and agreements oral or
written.  Any amendments to this franchise shall be mutually agreed to in
writing by the parties.



112.38  RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.



Acceptance of the terms and conditions of this franchise will not constitute,
or be deemed to constitute, a waiver, either expressly or impliedly, by
Grantee of any constitutional or legal right which it may have or may be
determined to have, either by subsequent legislation or court decisions. 
The City acknowledges that Grantee reserves all of its rights under
applicable Federal and State Constitutions and laws. 



112.39  NOTICE.



Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice or
response required by this franchise to be served upon the City or the Grantee
shall be in writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the
required party when placed in a properly sealed and correctly addressed
envelope:  (i) upon receipt when hand delivered with receipt/acknowledgment;
(ii) upon receipt when sent certified, registered mail; (iii) within five
business days after having been posted in the regular mail; or (iv) the next
business day if sent by express mail or overnight air courier.  The City and
the Grantee may designate address or addresses from time to time by giving
notice to the other in the manner provided for in this section.



112.40  TERM.



The franchise shall expire ten (10) years from the date of final adoption by
the City, unless extended by the mutual agreement of the parties.



 


Notes

6 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 0502 adopting a cable television
franchise for the City was passed and adopted on April 25, 2005.



CHAPTER 113
RIGHTS-OF-WAY



 



113.01  Purpose and Rule of Interpretation
 
113.09  City Construction and Paving


113.02  Franchise, License or Lease Required
 
113.10  Design Notice to City


113.03  Fees
 
113.11  Above-Ground Cables, Wires, Conduits and Poles


113.04  Limit on Term
 
113.12  Assignment


113.05  Placement of Facilities
 
113.13  Forfeiture


113.06  Indemnification and Bond
 
113.14  Application


113.07  Regulation by the City
 
113.15  Home Rule


113.08  Construction and Excavation
 
113.16  New Technologies




 



113.01  PURPOSE AND RULE OF INTERPRETATION.



The Council finds it is necessary for the City to establish uniform rules and
controls to ensure public safety and provide efficient delivery of services
by the City and others wishing to utilize streets and other public property
for the delivery of utility or other services, in order to protect public and
private investment, ensure orderly use of public property and ensure the
health, safety and welfare of the population, to provide for the regulation
and administration of the public streets and other public property and secure
the rights of the City to a return on its investment in public property. 
This chapter is to be interpreted in light of these findings for the benefit
of the public and users of the streets and other public property.



113.02  FRANCHISE, LICENSE OR LEASE REQUIRED.



No person or other entity shall excavate or obstruct the public right-of-way
or other public property for the delivery of utility or related services
without first obtaining a franchise, license or lease from the City.  The
City shall not enter into or issue any franchise, license or lease that
grants exclusive rights.  An application for a license or lease shall be
filed with the City Clerk on a form provided by the City and shall include as
a minimum the following information:  the name, address and telephone number
of the applicant; the name, address and telephone number of a person whom the
City may notify or contact at any time concerning the license or lease; an
engineering site plan showing the proposed location of the facilities
including any manholes, the size, type and proposed depth of any conduit or
other enclosures; and any additional information the City may require.  No
license or lease required by this section shall be granted by the Council if
the proposed use of public right-of-way or property would endanger public
safety or not conform to standard engineering practices concerning placement
or separation distances from other facilities in said right-of-way or public
property.



113.03  FEES.



1.   Definitions.  The following terms are defined for use in this
section:



   A.   “Management costs” means the reasonable cost the City
actually incurs in managing public rights-of-way.



   B.   “Public right-of-way” means the area on or below a public
roadway, highway, street, bridge, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk
in which the City has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way
for travel purposes and utility easements.  A public right-of-way does not
include the airways above a public right-of-way in regard to cellular or
other non-wired telecommunications or broadcasts service or utility poles
owned by a local government or municipal utility.



   C.   “Public Utility” means a person owning or operating a
facility used for furnishing natural gas by pipe distribution system,
electricity, communication services not including cable television systems,
or water by pipe distribution system, to the public for compensation.



2.   The City shall not recover any fee from a public utility for the uses
of its right-of-way, other than a fee for its management costs.  The City
may recover from a public utility those management costs caused by the public
utility’s activity in the public right-of-way.  A fee or other obligation
under this section shall be imposed on a competitively neutral basis.  When
the City’s management costs cannot be attributed to only one entity, those
costs shall be allocated among all users of the public rights-of-way,
including the City itself.  The allocation shall reflect proportionately the
costs incurred by the City as a result of the various types of uses of the
public right-of-way.



3.   This section does not prohibit the collection of a franchise fee. 
If the City collects a franchise fee from an entity pursuant to Section
364.2(4) of the Code of Iowa, under an existing or future franchise, the City
shall not also collect a management fee from that entity under this section.



4.   In addition to the payment of the management costs, the franchisee,
licensee, or lessee shall pay for all City costs when there is an excavation
of a right-of-way.  These costs shall include all City construction costs,
costs for street degradation and replacement, obstructing and routing of
pedestrian and vehicle traffic and $5.00 per square foot or fraction thereof
for any concrete or asphalt cut.



5.   All or part of these costs may be waived if work is done in
conjunction with City construction.



113.04  LIMIT ON TERM.



No franchise, license or lease for use of the public right-of-way or other
public property shall be granted for a term of more than twenty-five (25)
years.



113.05  PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES.



The facilities, fixtures and equipment of the distribution, transmission or
sale of any utility services, or services provided under franchise, license
or lease or easement, shall be placed and maintained so as not to
unnecessarily or unreasonably interfere with the travel on the streets,
highways, avenues, alleys, bridges and public places in the City, nor shall
such facilities, fixtures and equipment interfere with the proper use of the
same, including, but not limited to, ordinary drainage, or the functioning of
the sewers, underground pipe or other property of the City.  In the event
that facilities, fixtures and equipment of any person or other entity located
within a public right-of-way must be relocated because of paving, road
construction or road reconstruction, sewer construction or sewer
reconstruction, or the construction or reconstruction of public drainage
systems or similar public works or the construction or reconstruction of the
facilities of any City-owned utility, such relocation, at the written request
of the City, shall be completed by the owner of such facilities at the
owner’s cost.  The City shall upon request of any person or other entity
holding a franchise, license or lease, review any plans for the construction
of facilities, fixtures and equipment within the public right-of-way and
advise the person or other entity of any conflict such construction may have
with planned or anticipated public improvements, but failure of the City to
so advise such person or other entity will not relieve the owner of such
facilities of its obligations under this chapter.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the City Public Works Director may require placement of equipment
or facilities belonging to any holder of a franchise, license or lease be
limited to locations designated by the Public Works Director if such
limitation is deemed by the Public Works Director to be necessary to protect
the integrity or use of present and future users of the public right-of-way
or other public property.



113.06  INDEMNIFICATION AND BOND.



The holder of any franchise, license or lease shall indemnify and hold the
City harmless at all times during the term of the franchise, license or lease
from and against all claims for injury or damage to any person or property,
including payments under workers’ compensation laws, caused by the
construction, erection, operation or maintenance of its facilities, fixtures
or equipment, or the negligence of its contractors or its employees.  In
case of any suit or action at law being commenced against the City, upon any
claim for damage arising out of any loss, injury or damage claimed to have
been caused by any installation, improvement, obstruction or excavation made
or left in, under or upon such street, sidewalk, alley or public place by the
holder of a franchise, license or lease, its agents, contractors or
employees, upon being notified in writing by the City of such action or
proceeding, the holder of said franchise, license or lease shall appear and
make proper defense thereto at the expense of the holder of the franchise,
license or lease; and if any judgment or decree shall in any such case be
rendered against the City therein, the holder of said franchise, license or
lease shall assume, pay and satisfy such judgment or decree, with the cost
thereof.  Immediately upon issuance of the franchise, license or lease, the
holder of the franchise, license or lease shall purchase general liability
insurance.  The amount of insurance shall be a minimum of $1,000,000 with a
maximum deductible of $5,000.  The holder of the franchise, license or lease
shall file with the Clerk a certificate of insurance which clearly discloses
on its face coverage in conformity with these requirements.  Upon request of
the City, the holder of the franchise, license or lease shall submit a
certified copy of the policy.



113.07  REGULATION BY THE CITY.



The City reserves the right to make reasonable general regulations for the
use of streets and other public property which unless otherwise specifically
provided shall apply to any holder of a franchise, license or lease.



113.08  CONSTRUCTION AND EXCAVATION.



A written permit will be obtained from the Public Works Director whenever it
becomes necessary for the holder of any franchise, license or lease to
excavate in streets or public grounds of the City.  Such permits shall state
a particular part or point of the street where the excavation is to be made
and the length of time in which such permit shall authorize the work to be
done.  An exception to a requirement for a permit shall be made in cases of
emergency involving public safety, in which case a permit will be obtained at
the earliest opportunity after the work has started.  In making excavations
in the streets, the holder of any franchise, license or lease shall proceed
with such work as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the public. 
The holder of any franchise, license or lease shall properly protect,
according to safety standards generally accepted at the time of placement, as
may be determined from time to time by the Public Works Director, all
excavations and obstructions by proper placement of shoring, surface plates,
barricades, warning lights and such other or additional devices as
circumstances may warrant.  If in the opinion of the Public Works Director,
such excavation or obstruction is not properly and safely protected, the
Public Works Director, shall notify such holder of a franchise, license or
lease who shall immediately comply with such reasonable instructions. 
Immediately after use, any trenches for excavations which the holder of a
franchise, license or lease has opened shall be filled.  However, no trench
or excavation in the streets shall be filled or covered without giving the
City the right to inspect the same.  All backfilling in streets will be
according to City specifications.  Temporary street surfacing will be placed
in such excavations as soon as the same has been backfilled.  Pavements,
sidewalks, curbs and gutters or other portions of streets and public places
opened, disturbed or damaged shall be promptly restored and replaced with
like materials at the expense of the holder of a franchise, license or lease
and left in as good condition as before the opening, disturbance or damage
occurred.  In the event like replacement materials are not available, the
holder of the franchise, license or lease shall notify the Public Works
Director who must approve the use of any alternate materials.  In the event
that the holder of a franchise, license or lease fails to comply with the
provisions of this section, after having been given reasonable notice, the
City may do such works as may be needed to properly repair such pavements,
sidewalks, curbs and gutters or other portions of streets and public places
and the cost thereof shall be repaid to the City by the holder of the
franchise, license or lease.  In cases where a cut or disturbance is made in
a section of street paving or sidewalks, but causes greater disturbance than
to just the area cut, rather than replace only the area cut, the holder of a
franchise, license or lease shall replace that area as may be ordered by the
Public Works Director, which in no event shall exceed the panel or panels
disturbed.



113.09  CITY CONSTRUCTION AND PAVING.



Whenever the City shall pave or repave any street or shall change the grade
line of any street or public place or shall construct or reconstruct any
conduit, water main service or water connection, sewer or other City-owned
public works or City-owned utility, it shall be the duty of the holder of any
franchise, license or lease, when so ordered by the City, to relocate its
service lines and other property in the streets or other public places at its
own expense so as to conform to the established grade or line of such street
or public place and so as not to interfere with the public improvements so
constructed or reconstructed.  In the case of other public improvements,
including but not limited to urban renewal projects, the City may require the
holder of a franchise, license or lease to relocate its poles, service lines
and appurtenances in the streets at the owner’s expense.  The City may at
its discretion assign personnel for inspection of excavation and related work
being performed by the holder of a franchise, license or lease.  Should the
holder of the franchise, license or lease fail or refuse to do and perform
the things provided in this section, the City may, after reasonable notice,
perform the work and charge the expense thereof to the holder of the
franchise, license or lease and the holder of the franchise, license or lease
shall promptly pay said charges.



113.10  DESIGN NOTICE TO CITY.



The holder of a franchise, license or lease shall promptly, upon request,
furnish the Public Works Director a detailed map or maps of its distribution
system both within the City limits and the area within two miles surrounding
the City.  The holder of a franchise, license or lease shall thereafter
update the map or maps at least annually or upon request, showing all
subsequent additions or deletions to the distribution system.  Prior to any
excavation by the City or its agents, a representative must contact the
holder of any franchise, license or lease regarding current information on
the location of underground lines or facilities in the area concerned.  The
obligation to contact the holder of a franchise, license or lease under this
section shall be satisfied if contact is made with a corporation organized
pursuant to Chapter 480 of the Code of Iowa or an entity with a similar
function utilized by both the City and the company, currently the Iowa
One-Call System.



113.11  ABOVE-GROUND CABLES, WIRES, CONDUITS AND POLES.



After enactment and publication of the ordinance codified by this chapter,
all cables, wires and conduits shall be placed underground except where
above-ground connection to buildings or other locations above ground is
reasonably necessary.  Such above-ground connection shall be by means of
poles located, as far as reasonably practical, within alleys.  No such poles
shall be installed or erected until the Public Works Department has approved
the proposed location, construction and pole heights.



113.12  ASSIGNMENT.



No sale or assignment of any franchise, license or lease of the use of the
public right-of-way or other public property shall be effective until it is
approved by the Council and until the holder thereof has filed in the office
of the Clerk written notice of the proposed sale, transfer, disposition
assignment, such notice to clearly summarize the proposed procedure and the
terms and conditions thereof.  Such approval by the City shall not be
unreasonably withheld.  The proposed vendee, assignee or lessee shall
similarly file an instrument, duly executed, reciting such proposal,
accepting the terms of the franchise, license or lease and agreeing to
perform all of the conditions thereof.



113.13  FORFEITURE.



The violation of any material portion of a franchise, license or lease by the
holder thereof or its successors or assigns, or its failure promptly to
perform any of the provisions of this chapter shall be cause for forfeiture
of said franchise, license or lease and the termination of all rights
thereunder.  Such forfeiture shall be accomplished by written notice to the
holder thereof and failure or default specified on the notice within thirty
(30) days from the date the notice was served.



113.14  APPLICATION.



This chapter shall apply to all franchises, licenses or leases and easements
granted by the City, including all existing franchises, licenses or leases
and easements.



113.15  HOME RULE.



This chapter is intended to be and shall be construed as consistent with the
reservation of local authority contained in the 25th Amendment to the Iowa
Constitution granting cities Home Rule powers.  To such end any limitation
on the power of the City contained herein is to be strictly construed and the
City reserves to itself the right to exercise all power and authority to
regulate and control its local affairs and all ordinances and regulations of
the City shall be enforceable against the holder of any franchise, license or
lease.



113.16  NEW TECHNOLOGIES.



Should, within the term of any franchise, license or lease, developments
within the filed for which the grant was made offer to the holder thereof the
opportunity to effectively, efficiently and economically serve its customers
through use of a substance or material other than those for which the grant
was originally made, then the holder of the franchise, license or lease may
petition the Council which, with such requirements or limitation as it deems
necessary to protect public health, safety and welfare, may allow the use of
such substance or material under the terms and conditions of the franchise,
license or lease.



CHAPTER 114
CITY ENTERPRISE FEES



 

114.01  Carroll Family Aquatic Center Fees and Charges
 
114.03  Carroll Recreation Center Fees and Charges


114.02  Golf Course Fees and Charges
 
 



 



114.01  CARROLL FAMILY AQUATIC CENTER FEES AND CHARGES.



 

Family Membership
 
$190.00



Caregiver



(add babysitter/grandparent to any season pass)

 

$25.00


(additional)



Single Membership


(4 years and older)
 
$95.00



Bulk Rate Tickets


(100 punches)
 
$450.00



Daily Admission


 
 
$6.00



 




(Ord. 1209 - Jan. 13 Supp.)




114.02  GOLF COURSE FEES AND CHARGES.



 




CARROLL MUNICIPAL GOLF COURSE
(Effective January 1, 2019)



Annual Family
 
$781.00


Annual Adult
 
$509.00


Annual Student
 
$232.00


Annual Senior
 
$458.00


Annual Senior Couple
 
$703.00


 


Annual Cart Rental
 
$480.00


Annual Trail Fees
 
$200.00




 



 


GREEN FEES



 
 

WEEKDAY

 

WEEKEND



9 HOLES
 

$16.50

 

$19.00



18 HOLES
 

$25.00

 

$29.00




 



 


GOLF CART RENTALS



 
 

WEEKDAY

 

WEEKEND



9 HOLES
 

$10.00

 

$12.50



18 HOLES
 

$20.00

 

$25.00




 



 


TRAIL FEES



9 HOLES
 

$5.00



18 HOLES
 

$7.50




 



T he City Council does authorize the Director of Parks & Recreation to adjust
green fees or allow specials during the month of September each calendar year
to encourage more rounds of golf.




(Ord. 1809 - Jan. 19 Supp.)




114.03  CARROLL RECREATION CENTER FEES AND CHARGES.



(Effective November 1, 2018)



 



Annual Family
 
$453.00


Annual Single Parent
 
$399.00


Annual Adult
 
$228.00


Annual College Student
 
$204.00


Annual Youth
 
$156.00


Annual Senior
 
$204.00


Annual Senior Couple
 
$360.00


Annual Fitness (Unlimited)
 
$420.00


24 Hour Access
 
$120.00*


*Only available with annual membership


 
 
 


Monthly Family
 
$50.00


Monthly Single Parent
 
$47.00


Monthly Adult
 
$31.00


Monthly College Student
 
$29.00


Monthly Youth
 
$23.00


Monthly Senior
 
$29.00


Monthly Senior Couple
 
$45.00


Monthly Fitness (Unlimited)
 
$62.50


24 Hour Access
 
$20.00**


** Only available with above monthly membership









(Ord. 19-03 - Aug. 19 Supp.)




CHAPTER 115
CEMETERY



 



115.01  Definition
 
115.09  Grave Markers


115.02  Trusteeship and Establishment of Trust Fund
 
115.10  Mausoleums


115.03  Cemetery Sexton
 
115.11  Additional Regulations


115.04  Perpetual Care Registry
 
115.12  Memorial Work


115.05  Sale of Interment Rights
 
115.13  Landscaping and Planting


115.06  Perpetual Care
 
115.14  Right to Replat


115.07  Rules and Regulations
 
115.15  Transfers or Assignments


115.08  Foundations
 
115.16  Gifts to Employees Prohibited




 



115.01  DEFINITION.



The term “cemetery” means the City Cemetery, which is a municipal
cemetery under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa and which
shall be operated under the provisions of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa
and this chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.501)



115.02  TRUSTEESHIP AND ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST FUND.



A perpetual trust is hereby established for the cemetery in accordance with
Iowa Code Chapter 523I, the Iowa Cemetery Act.  A restricted fund is
created, to be known and designated as the "perpetual care cemetery fund,"
which shall be funded by the deposit of an amount equal to or greater than
twenty percent of the gross selling price, or $50.00, whichever is more, for
each sale of interment rights within the cemetery.  The fund shall be
administered in accordance with the purposes and provisions of Iowa Code
Chapter 523I.  The perpetual care cemetery fund shall be maintained separate
from all operating funds of the cemetery and the principal of the fund shall
not be reduced voluntarily except as specifically permitted by the Iowa
Cemetery Act and applicable administrative regulations.  The City hereby
states its willingness and intention to act as the trustee for the perpetual
maintenance of interment spaces and cemetery property.




(Ord. 1605 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




115.03  CEMETERY SEXTON.



The Cemetery Sexton shall operate the cemetery in accordance with the rules
and regulations therefor and under the direction of the Council.  The duties
of the Cemetery Sexton are as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   Supervise Openings.  Supervise the opening of all graves and be
present at every interment in the cemetery; 



2.   Maintenance.  Be responsible for the maintenance of the cemetery
buildings, grounds and equipment and make a monthly report of the cemetery
operation to the Council. 



115.04  PERPETUAL CARE REGISTRY.



The cemetery shall maintain a registry of individuals who have purchased
interment rights in the cemetery subject to the care fund requirements of the
Iowa Cemetery Act, including the amounts deposited in the perpetual care
cemetery fund.  The registry shall include all the following:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.311)



1.   1.   Sales or Transfers of Interment Rights.



   A.   The name and last known address of each owner or previous owner
of interment rights.



   B.   The date of each purchase or transfer of interment rights.



   C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space sold by the cemetery.



2.   Interments. 



   A.   The date the remains are interred.



   B.   The name, date of birth, and date of death of the decedent
interred, if those facts can be conveniently obtained.



   C.   A unique numeric or alphanumeric identifier that identifies the
location of each interment space where the remains are interred.




(Ord. 1605 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




115.05  SALE OF INTERMENT RIGHTS.



The sale or transfer of interment rights in the cemetery shall be evidenced
by a certificate of interment rights or other instrument evidencing the
conveyance of exclusive rights of interment upon payment in full of the
purchase price.  The agreement for interment rights shall disclose all
information required by the Iowa Cemetery Act, including the amount or
percentage of money to be placed in the perpetual care cemetery fund.  The
payment of all fees and charges shall be made at the office of the Clerk
where receipts will be issued for all amounts paid.  Said fees and charges
shall be based upon the charges as established by the Council by resolution.




(Ord. 1605 - Jun. 16 Supp.)




115.06  PERPETUAL CARE.



The Council, by resolution, shall accept, receive, and expend all moneys and
property donated or left to them by bequest for perpetual care, and that
portion of interment space sales or permanent charges made against interment
spaces which has been set aside in a perpetual care fund.  The assets of the
perpetual care fund shall be invested in accordance with State law.  The
Council, by resolution, shall provide for the payment of interest annually to
the appropriate fund, or to the cemetery, or to the person in charge of the
cemetery to be used in caring for or maintaining the individual property of
the donor in the cemetery, or interment spaces which have been sold with
provisions for perpetual care, all in accordance with the terms of the
donation or bequest, or the terms of the sale or purchase of an interment
space and Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.503, 523I.507 & 523I.508)



115.07  RULES AND REGULATIONS.



Rules and regulations for the cemetery may be adopted, and may be amended
from time to time, by resolution of the Council and may cover such things as
the use, care, control, management, restrictions and protection of the
cemetery as necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the
cemetery.  The rules shall specify the cemetery’s obligations in the event
that interment spaces, memorials, or memorializations are damaged or defaced
by acts of vandalism.  Any veteran, as defined in Section 35.1 of the Code
of Iowa, who is a landowner or who lives within the City shall be allowed to
purchase an interment space and to be interred within the cemetery.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 523I.304)



115.08  FOUNDATIONS.



All foundations under memorials or markers shall extend not less than thirty
(30) inches below the surface of the ground and shall extend a minimum of
five (5) inches on all sides of the stone or marker supported thereby.  Said
foundations shall be constructed and placed under the Cemetery Sexton’s
supervision. 



115.09  GRAVE MARKERS.



A grave marker and/or memorial line is to be established which shall extend
twenty-four (24) inches from the head of the burial space toward the foot of
the burial space.  It is the intent of this provision that all markers
and/or memorials be placed in uniform rows for the purpose of order and
efficient maintenance.



115.10  MAUSOLEUMS.



Private mausoleums may be erected by lot owners upon written request and
submission of scale plans and specifications to the Council and approval. 
Additional payments for perpetual care shall be received, as determined by
the Council, before permission is given for construction.



115.11  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.



The interment of bodies and maintenance of graves shall be under the
following restrictions:



1.   Placement.  All bodies shall be so interred to lie wholly within
bounds of the space.



2.   Excavations.  All excavations are to be performed by the Sexton or
such other authorized person as he may direct.



3.   Grade.  Grade of the space shall not be altered and enclosures to
define the space and mounds over the grave are prohibited.



4.   Appurtenances.  Iron or wire work, arches and seats, are prohibited
except by written permission of Council.  Vases are permitted only when
placed in line with the markers.



5.   Family Memorials.  Family memorials are allowed only on four spaces
or larger, except by special written permission of the Council, and shall be
of approved or certified granite or stone.



6.   Burial Vaults.  Nothing less than an earth-bearing cement, metal or
fiberglass box may be used except for babies buried in Babyland.



7.   Cremation Burials.  Cremation burials shall be allowed on a space. 
No more than two (2) cremation burials shall be allowed on one space, or one
burial vault and one cremation burial on the same space.



8.   Other.  Such other rules and regulations as are promulgated by the
Council, or delegated to the City Manager, by the Council.



115.12  MEMORIAL WORK.



No memorial work shall be placed on any lot until said lot is paid for in
full.



115.13  LANDSCAPING AND PLANTING.



All grading, landscaping work, improvements and care or removal of trees,
shrubs and herbage shall be performed by the City.



115.14  RIGHT TO REPLAT.



The right and privilege, at any time and from time to time, to resurvey,
enlarge, diminish, replat, alter in shape or size, or otherwise to change all
or any part, portion, or subdivision of the property mapped and platted,
including the right to lay out, establish, close, eliminate, vacate or
otherwise modify or change roads, walks or drives, and to file amended plats
thereof, and to use the same for any purpose connected with, or incident to
the operation of a cemetery is hereby reserved to the City.



115.15  TRANSFERS OR ASSIGNMENTS.



No transfer or assignment of any plot, lot or grave, or any interest therein
shall be valid until such assignment or transfer shall have been recorded
upon the books of the cemetery by the Clerk.



115.16  GIFTS TO EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.



No employees of the cemetery shall receive gratuities, the acceptance of
which shall constitute reason for immediate dismissal.



CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS



 

120.01  License or Permit Required
 
120.04  Action by Council


120.02  General Prohibition
 
120.05  Prohibited Sales and Acts


120.03  Investigation
 
120.06  Amusement Devices



 



120.01  LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.



No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for
sale, alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 & 123.171)



120.02  GENERAL PROHIBITION.



It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale, possess
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the
Code of Iowa, and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil
penalty may be imposed for a violation thereof. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 & 123.50)



120.03  INVESTIGATION.



Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts
averred in the application.  The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to
determine if they conform to the requirements of the City.  The Council
shall not approve an application for a license or permit for any premises
that does not conform to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations of the City.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)



120.04  ACTION BY COUNCIL.



The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of the liquor
control license or retail wine or beer permit and shall endorse its approval
or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application, necessary
fee and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic Beverages
Division of the State Department of Commerce for such further action as is
provided by law. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])



120.05  PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.



A person or club holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and
the person’s or club’s agents or employees shall not do any of the
following:



1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])



2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage, wine, or beer on the
premises covered by the license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however,
a holder of a license or permit granted the privilege of selling alcoholic
liquor, beer, or wine on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, beer,
or wine between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of the
following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a class “B” beer permit may sell or
dispense alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that
Monday is New Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when
that Sunday is the day before New Year’s Day.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b and 2k] & 123.150)



3.   Sell alcoholic beverages, wine, or beer to any person on credit,
except with a bona fide credit card.  This provision does not apply to sales
by a club to its members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide
registered guests or to retail sales by the managing entity of a convention
center, civic center, or events center.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])



4.   Employ a person under eighteen (18) years of age in the sale or
serving of alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises
where sold.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])



5.   In the case of a retail beer or wine permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to beer, wine, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])



6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])



7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])



8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])



9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])



10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of
the licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any
alcoholic liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the
transporting of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])



11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a
vaporized form.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])



12.   Permit or allow any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to
remain upon licensed premises unless over fifty percent (50%) of the dollar
volume of the business establishment comes from the sale and serving of
prepared foods.  This provision does not apply to holders of a class “C”
beer permit only.



120.06  AMUSEMENT DEVICES.



The following provisions pertain to electronic or mechanical amusement
devices, which are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or
beer permit as specifically authorized in Section 99B.10 of the Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.10C)



1.   As used in this section an “electronic or mechanical amusement
device” means a device that awards a prize redeemable for merchandise on
the premises where the device is located and that is required to be
registered with the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals.



2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
participate in the operation of an electrical or mechanical amusement device.



3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing an electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing an
electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a person under
the age of 21 to participate in the operation of an electrical or mechanical
amusement device.



4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the
operation of an electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.



CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS



 

121.01  Definitions
 
121.06  Refunds


121.02  Permit Required
 
121.07  Persons Under Legal Age


121.03  Application
 
121.08  Self-Service Sales Prohibited


121.04  Fees
 
121.09  Permit Revocation


121.05  Issuance and Expiration
 
 



 



121.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)



1.   “Carton” means a box or container of any kind in which ten or
more packages or packs of cigarettes or tobacco products are offered for
sale, sold, or otherwise distributed to consumers.



2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material.  However, this definition is
not to be construed to include cigars.



3.   “Package” or “pack” means a container of any kind in which
cigarettes or tobacco products are offered for sale, sold, or otherwise
distributed to consumers.



4.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes or tobacco
products are sold, stored or kept for the purpose of sale or consumption by a
retailer. 



5.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers
for sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for
consumption, cigarettes, irrespective of the quantity or amount or the number
of sales or who engages in the business of selling tobacco products to
ultimate consumers.



6.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display,
placement, or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take
possession of the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the
retailer or employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a
restricted access location.



7.   “Tobacco products” means the following:  cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed
and other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut
and other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or
for both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.



121.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.



1.   Cigarette Permits.  It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes at retail and no retailer shall
distribute, sell, or solicit the sale of any cigarettes within the City
without a valid permit for each place of business.  The permit shall, at all
times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be easily seen
by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of business.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)



2.   Tobacco Permits.  It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco products at any place of business without
first having received a permit as a tobacco products retailer for each place
of business owned or operated by the retailer.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)



A retailer who holds a cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
tobacco permit.  However, if a retailer only holds a cigarette permit and
that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall not sell
any cigarettes or tobacco products during such time.



121.03  APPLICATION.



A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by
the required fee shall be filed with the Clerk.  Renewal applications shall
be filed at least five (5) days prior to the last regular meeting of the
Council in June.  If a renewal application is not timely filed, and a
special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)



121.04  FEES.



The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows: 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)



 

FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:
 
FEE:


July, August or September
 
$ 75.00


October, November or December
 
$ 56.25


January, February or March
 
$ 37.50


April, May or June
 
$ 18.75



 



121.05  ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.



Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued.  Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable.  All permits expire on June
30 of each year.  The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for
a permit, and any permit issued, to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the
Department of Commerce within thirty (30) days of issuance.



121.06  REFUNDS.



A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa. 



(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)



121.07  PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.



No person shall sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, or cigarettes to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.  The
provision of this section includes prohibiting a minor from purchasing
cigarettes or tobacco products from a vending machine.  If a retailer or
employee of a retailer violates the provisions of this section, the Council
shall, after written notice and hearing, and in addition to the other
penalties fixed for such violation, assess the following:



1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00).  Failure to pay the civil
penalty as ordered under this subsection shall result in automatic suspension
of the permit for a period of fourteen (14) days.



2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) or the retailer’s permit shall be suspended for a
period of thirty (30) days.  The retailer may select its preference in the
penalty to be applied under this subsection.



3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the
retailer’s permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.



4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the
retailer’s permit shall be suspended for a period of sixty (60) days.



5.   For a fifth violation with a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.



The Clerk shall give ten (10) days’ written notice to the retailer by
mailing a copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the
application for a permit.  The notice shall state the reason for the
contemplated action and the time and place at which the retailer may appear
and be heard. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])



121.08  SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.



Beginning January 1, 1999, except for the sale of cigarettes through a
cigarette vending machine as provided in Section 453A.36(6) of the Code of
Iowa, a retailer shall not sell or offer for sale cigarettes or tobacco
products, in a quantity of less than a carton, through the use of a
self-service display.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)



121.09  PERMIT REVOCATION.



Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of
Iowa or any rule adopted thereunder.  If a permit is revoked, a new permit
shall not be issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any
other person for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until
one year has expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the
contrary is shown to the Council.  The Clerk shall report the revocation or
suspension of a retail permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the
Department of Commerce within thirty (30) days of the revocation or
suspension.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)



CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS



 

122.01  Purpose
 
122.08  Criteria Considered for Issuing Permit


122.02  Definitions
 
122.09  Permit Fee


122.03  Exemptions
 
122.10  Issuance of Permit


122.04  Permit Required
 
122.11  Revocation


122.05  Permit Requirements
 
122.12  Penalty


122.06  Bond Required
 
122.13  Enforcement


122.07  Multiple Vendors; Special Events
 
 



 



122.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable regulations and
restrictions for the practices of peddlers, solicitors and transient
merchants involved with the sale of goods, merchandise or services, and to
apply reasonable safeguards for the public against misrepresentation,
fraudulent practices, and defective merchandise.



122.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying or transporting goods or
merchandise who sells or offers for sale for imme-diate delivery such goods
or merchandise from house to house or upon the public street.



2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit
from house to house or upon public streets, orders for commercial goods,
wares, subscriptions, publications, periodicals, merchandise or services to
be delivered or fulfilled at a future date.  For the purposes of this
chapter, “solicitor” does not include a person who contacts another
person at his or her residence without prior invitation to enlist support for
or against, or solicit funds for patriotic, philanthropic, charitable,
political or religious purposes, whether or not there is an incidental
purpose involving the sale of some goods or services.



3.   “Transient merchant” includes every merchant, whether an
individual person, a firm, corporation, partnership, or association, and
whether owner, agent, bailee, consignee, or employee, who brings or causes to
be brought within the City any goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind,
nature or description, with the intention of temporarily or intermittently
selling or offering to sell at retail such goods, wares, or merchandise.  A
merchant engaging in business shall be presumed to be temporarily or
intermittently in business unless it is the intention of such merchant to
remain continuously in business within the City as a merchant for a period of
more than sixty (60) days.



122.03  EXEMPTIONS.



The provisions of this chapter do not apply to persons engaged in the
following described activities:



1.   Persons selling at wholesale to merchants for the purpose of resale.



2.   Persons selling or distributing newspapers or similar tabloids.



3.   Persons selling tangible personal property or services to business
enterprises.



4.   Persons who sell at their permanent residence in the City works of
art or crafts made or created by such person or a member of such person’s
immediate family.



5.   Persons licensed by the State of Iowa to sell real estate or
insurance or licensed as transient vendors of drugs.



6.   Person selling or delivering tangible personal property or services
through a permanent business located in the City, or sold to regular
customers on established routes (e.g. Schwans, Avon).



7.   Farmers who offer for sale products of their own raising or persons
selling at wholesale to merchants.



8.   Persons selling their own work or production either by themselves or
their employees.



9.   Candidates (or their duly authorized representatives) for local,
County, State, or national office soliciting donations and/or support.



10.   Persons selling tangible property at a garage, basement, or yard
sale held at one of the person’s residences, a shelter house, or similar
type location.



11.   Persons conducting and selling admissions to or for theatricals,
shows, rides, sports and games, concerts, cir-cuses, carnivals or any other
public amusement.



12.   Solicitations and sales by charitable and nonprofit organizations
defined and authorized by Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa or are authorized
by and organized under statutes or regulations of the United States
Government, or approved by the Internal Revenue Service, all public and
private schools and colleges, nonprofit clubs and lodges that are not
ordinarily conducted as a business that do not meet the requirements of
Chapter 504.



13.   Persons licensed as auctioneers by the laws of the State.



122.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.



It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, as herein
defined, to sell, dispose of, or offer for sale any goods, wares, or
merchandise of any kind, nature, or description, at any time or place within
the City, unless such peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant has a valid
license as herein provided and shall have complied with the regulations set
forth herein.



122.05  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.



Any peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, as defined herein, desiring a
permit shall file with the Police Chief the required application forms, which
shall contain the following information:



1.   Name, date of birth, and social security number of each person who
will be selling goods or merchandise within the City.



2.   Permanent and local addresses and telephone numbers of each person
who will be selling goods or merchandise within the City.



3.   A brief description of the product(s) to be sold, the sales method,
and the dates, times, and location(s) of the sales.  No sales will be
allowed before 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.



4.   Name, address, and phone number of the firm for which or on whose
behalf the orders are solicited, or the supplier of the goods offered for
sale.



5.   Length of time for which the permit is desired.



6.   Make, model, year, color, and license plate information of each
vehicle which will be used in the proposed solicitation.



7.   Copy of State sales tax permit and Federal tax identification number.



122.06  BOND REQUIRED.



Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.



122.07  MULTIPLE VENDORS; SPECIAL EVENTS.



If a single group, organization, club, business, or agency is sponsoring an
event wherein multiple peddlers, solicitors, and/or transient
merchants/vendors will be selling goods, merchandise, or services at a single
location and/or under one roof, the sponsor may apply for a single Special
Event Permit.  The sponsor will be responsible for collecting the names,
addresses, and phone numbers of each of the peddlers, solicitors, and/or
transient merchants/vendors who will be selling at the Special Event.  This
information shall be furnished to the Police Chief along with the application
for the Special Event so that any reference or background checks that are
deemed necessary can be conducted prior to approval of the permit.  This
information shall also be retained by the event sponsor so that customers
will have access to contact persons at each company in the event of any
questions, comments, complaints, or concerns regarding any goods,
merchandise, or services purchased at the Special Event.  Each permit will
be valid for a maximum of seven (7) days.  The Special Event Permit
described in this section will be in lieu of the permits normally required
for individual peddlers, solicitors, and/or transient merchants. 



122.08  CRITERIA CONSIDERED FOR ISSUING PERMIT.



In determining whether any permit under this chapter should be granted or
denied, the following standards shall be taken into consideration:



1.   If the proposed activity is likely to cause undue congestion of a
public area.



2.   If the proposed activity is likely to create a safety hazard.



3.   If the applicant has had an unreasonable number of complaints for
misrepresentation, fraud, or selling defective merchandise.



4.   If the applicant or any of its agents or representatives has been
convicted within the last five (5) years of any public offense relating to
fraud, misrepresentation, or moral turpitude.



5.   If the proposed activity is likely to cause excessive or unusual
noise.



6.   If the proposed activity is located in a structure other than a
permanent building or an accessory building of less than 120 square feet. 
Permits shall be denied for activities that will be conducted in temporary
structures, trailers, tents, or other similar temporary arrangements for more
than 5 days in a 60 day period.



(Ord. 1705 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



122.09  PERMIT FEE.



Prior to issuing the said peddler’s, solicitor’s, or transient
merchant’s permit, the Police Chief shall collect for the City a permit fee
in the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each day the applicant, as
shown by the application, shall propose to sell or offer for sale any goods,
wares or merchandise within the City.  The fee for each Special Event permit
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).



122.10  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.



Upon receiving an application for a peddler’s, solicitor’s, or transient
merchant’s permit, the Police Chief shall investigate (or cause to be
investigated) the reputation and character of the applicant.  Up to a
maximum of ten (10) days will be allowed for the completion of this
investigation.  If, upon completion of such investigation, the Police Chief
is satisfied that the statements and representations contained in the
application are true, and that the applicant is of good reputation and
character, and has met all of the permit requirements contained in this
chapter, the Chief shall issue to the applicant a permit as a peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant upon payment of the fee as herein prescribed
for the period of time requested in said application and for use at the
location and place where it is stated in said application.  This permit
shall be carried by each person selling goods or merchandise for the
applicant and shall be displayed upon demand to any potential customer, or
police officer.  Such permit shall be valid only for the period of time and
at the location and place described therein.



122.11  REVOCATION.



The Police Chief may revoke any permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter for any of the following causes:



1.   For any violations of the provisions of this chapter.



2.   For making false or misleading statements or representations on the
application form.



3.   For making false or misleading statements or representations
regarding any article sold or offered for sale as to condition, quality,
original cost, or cost to such peddler, solicitor or transient merchant.



122.12  PENALTY.



Any merchant, whether an individual person, a firm, corporation, partnership,
or association violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a simple misdemeanor.  Each sale made in violation of the
provisions hereof shall be considered a separate offense.



122.13  ENFORCEMENT.



The Police Chief or any sworn officers of the police department may issue
citations or arrest persons in violation of the provisions of this chapter. 
The City Attorney or designees of the City Attorney may seek an injunction
from a court of competent jurisdiction in order to prohibit sales by a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant who is in violation of this chapter.



CHAPTER 123
PAWNBROKERS



 



123.01  Definition of Pawnbroker
 
123.09  Inspection of Register and Property


123.02  License Required
 
123.10  Ticket for Property Received


123.03  Exemptions
 
123.11  Holding Period


123.04  Affidavit Required
 
123.12  Police Order to Hold Property


123.05  Application
 
123.13  Prohibited Act


123.06  Surety Bond
 
123.14  Denial, Suspension or Revocation


123.07  Records Register Required
 
123.15  Violations


123.08  Weapons
 
123.16  Maximum Interest Rates




 



123.01  DEFINITION OF PAWNBROKER.



For use in this chapter, the term “pawnbroker” means any person or
business who loans money on the pledge of personal property or other valuable
items, and who takes possession of the property on the condition of selling
the property back to the seller again at a stipulated price, or any person or
business who deals in the purchase of used personal property or other
valuable items for later resale, subject to the exceptions stated in Section
123.03.



123.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.



No person shall carry on or engage in business as a pawnbroker in the City
without first having obtained a license therefor from the City and paying an
annual license fee of $1,000.00 or a fee subsequently set by resolution of
the City Council.  Any person having several or separate places of business
shall pay the license fee and procure a license for each place.  The license
provided for herein is valid only for the location designated in the
application pursuant to Section 123.05 and shall be prominently displayed
therein at all times.  Upon any change in any of the information required to
be submitted as part of the application, the licensee shall within three (3)
days of such change notify the Police Chief of such change, in writing, and
in the event of a change of address where doing business, the license shall
be returned to the Police Chief and an amended license issued designating the
new location.  The amended license will be valid for the length of the time
remaining on the original license.  All licenses issued under this chapter
shall expire one year after the original date of issuance.  There shall be
no automatic renewal.  An application for renewal shall be filed and the fee
paid not less than forty-five (45) days prior to the expiration of the
current license.



123.03  EXEMPTIONS.



This chapter does not apply to or include the following:



1.   The sale of secondhand goods at yard sales, garage sales, or moving
sales.



2.   The sale of secondhand books or magazines.



3.   The sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer.



4.   The business of buying or selling only those secondhand goods taken
as part or full payment for new goods and where such business is incident to
and not the primary business of a person.



5.   A bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler
having an established place of business or of goods sold at open sale from
bankrupt stock.



6.   Goods sold at the public market, e.g., farmers market, etc.



7.   Goods sold at a bona fide antique, used furniture, or used clothing
store, i.e., a business in which seventy-five percent (75%) of the
business’s revenue is derived through the sale of antiques, used furniture
or used clothes.



123.04  AFFIDAVIT REQUIRED.



Before any license required by this chapter is issued, the applicant therefor
shall file with the Police Chief an affidavit that the applicant will observe
and carry out the requirements of any provisions of this Code of Ordinances
in force at the time of the application, or any provision of this Code of
Ordinances passed thereafter and during the time the applicant’s license is
in force, in relation to pawnbrokers or their business.



123.05  APPLICATION.



Any applicant for a pawnbroker license must complete an application form
provided by the Police Chief.  The application form shall contain the
following information:



1.   Name, place of birth, date of birth, and home address of the
applicant.



2.   Designation of location, including street and number, where business
is to be transacted, plus name and address of the owner of the premises.



3.   A detailed drawing of the interior of the place of business and any
other storage facilities used by the pawnbroker for storing items in the
dealer’s possession.



4.   A statement as to whether, within the previous five (5) years, the
applicant has been convicted of any felony or other crime relating to theft,
damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance, including the
nature and date of the offense and the penalty received.



5.   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation, or
partnership and:



   A.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of
all partners;



   B.   If the applicant is a corporation, the state of incorporation
and the names and addresses of all officers and directors.



6.   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall be signed
and sworn to by the person; if a corporation, by its President and Secretary.



The Police Department shall investigate and verify the facts set forth in the
application.  The applicant shall furnish to the Police Department such
evidence as it may reasonably require in support of the statements set forth
in the application.



123.06  SURETY BOND.



Each applicant for a license shall, before the license is issued to the
applicant, file with the City Clerk a bond, with a surety approved by the
Council, in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), conditioned
that the applicant will comply with and observe the terms and conditions of
all provisions of this Code of Ordinances relating to pawnbrokers or their
business, will pay all costs, fines, and penalties incurred on account of the
applicant’s failure to observe such provisions and will pay all damages
resulting to any person by reason of the wrongful and knowingly purchase or
receiving of any stolen property or property from any minor, which bond shall
be approved by the Council and filed with the Clerk.



123.07  RECORDS REGISTER REQUIRED.



1.   Every pawnbroker is required to keep a record register in which the
dealer accurately, intelligently, and legibly enters, in ink, in the English
language, and at the time of purchasing or receiving any article or item:



   A.   The retail fair market value of the article;



   B.   The amount paid, advanced, or loaned for the article;



   C.   A detailed, complete, and accurate description of the article,
including identifying marks;



   D.   The article’s serial number and model number, if any;



   E.   The name of the person from whom the article is purchased or
received, his or her residential address and telephone number, date of birth,
driver’s license or non-operator’s identification number, and height and
general description as evidenced by a photograph and confirmed by a picture
identification;



   F.   The date, time, and place of the transaction;



   G.   The time and date when the article is to be redeemed or bought
back;



   H.   Any security interest or bill of sale taken, or receipt or pawn
ticket given;



   I.   When, and by whom, an article was bought back or redeemed;



   J.   When, to whom, and how an article was disposed of.



2.   Every pawnbroker shall also record the date of disposition of the
article or any part or portion thereof.  The disposition report shall be
located in the same book and at the same place where the receiving records
for the article are located.



3.   Any person who fails to keep such records or fails to make the
required entries therein, or intentionally or knowingly makes any false or
unintelligible entry or any entry which the dealer has reason to believe is
untrue, or who fails to make the inquiries necessary to enable the dealer to
make such entries or any of them, or who fails to produce the records when
requested, or who destroys or negligently permits such records to be
destroyed or lost is in violation of this chapter.



4.   Every pawnbroker shall submit to the Police Department, by noon on
Friday of each week, a record of each item received on pawn or purchased
outright.  Such record shall include all information required by subsection
1.  A pawnbroker who fails to submit such record on each item received is in
violation of this chapter.



123.08  WEAPONS.



If a pawnbroker receives as a pledge or purchase any revolver, pistol,
blackjack, shotgun, rifle, or any kind of firearm whatsoever, the pawnbroker
shall submit to the Police Department, within forty-eight (48) hours, all
information pertaining to the transaction, including but not limited to the
owner, the owner’s address, a description of a firearm and the firearm’s
serial number (when applicable).  All such transactions shall be fully
compliant with all State and Federal regulations governing the purchase,
sale, or trade of such weapons.



123.09  INSPECTION OF REGISTER AND PROPERTY.



The pawnbroker’s register required by this chapter shall at all times be
open to inspection by a duly authorized officer of the City without
warrant.  The pawnbroker shall also, upon request, show to any duly
authorized officer any articles purchased, taken, or received by the
pawnbroker or deposited with the pawnbroker and in the pawnbroker’s
possession.



123.10  TICKET FOR PROPERTY RECEIVED.



To each person selling, negotiating, depositing, or leaving any property with
a pawnbroker, the pawnbroker shall give a ticket upon which shall be printed
or written a copy of all entries required by this chapter to be made in the
pawnbroker’s register with reference to the transactions with such
person.  No charge shall be made by the pawnbroker for such ticket.



123.11  HOLDING PERIOD.



Any item received by a pawnbroker shall not be redeemed by customer, sold,
transferred, altered, removed from the premises or otherwise disposed of for
thirty (30) days after the date of purchase.  Failure to hold any item for
the required holding period is in violation of this chapter.



123.12  POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.



The Police are authorized to seize property, without warrant, or to require
the dealer to hold property which they have probable cause to believe is
stolen property.  A receipt will be given to the pawnbroker for all property
seized.



123.13  PROHIBITED ACTS.



1.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall sell or pawn any
item with any pawnbroker, nor shall any pawnbroker receive any items from a
person under the age of 18.



2.   No pawnbroker shall receive any goods unless the seller presents two
(2) forms of identification, at least one of which is a government-issued
photo I.D.



Proper identification shall consist of, but not be limited to, driver’s
license, passport, government-issued picture I.D., medical insurance card,
draft card and/or major credit card.  The pawnbroker shall make a photocopy
of each form of identification presented and retain these with the record of
the transaction(s).



3.   No goods or merchandise shall be stored or continuously displayed on
any public street, alley, sidewalk, or public parking.



123.14  DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.



Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked for any
of the following reasons:



1.   The proposed use is in conflict with the Zoning Ordinance.



2.   The proposed use is in conflict with any health, building, building
maintenance or other provision of this Code of Ordinances or State law.



3.   Violation of any provision of this chapter.



4.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements in securing a license.



5.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements in the course of the
applicant’s business.



6.   Conviction within the preceding five (5) years of any felony or any
other public offense relating to theft, or damage or trespass.



The Police Chief may, upon receipt of information alleging that grounds exist
to deny, suspend, or revoke the license of any applicant or licensee under
this chapter, and after consultation with the legal department, report the
circumstances to the Council, which in such cases may cause a notice to be
served on the applicant or licensee, which notice shall state that a denial,
suspension, or revocation hearing has been set before the Council, the
grounds for the proposed denial, suspension or revocation, the date and time
of the hearing and the place where the hearing will be conducted.  Upon such
hearing, if the Council determines that one or more of such grounds do exist,
it may deny an application or suspend or revoke an existing license.  In the
event such license is revoked, no license under this chapter shall be issued
to the licensee for a period of one (1) year.



123.15  VIOLATIONS.



A violation of this chapter shall constitute a simple misdemeanor with a
scheduled fine of $250.00.  Second and subsequent violations shall have a
scheduled fine of $500.00.



123.16  MAXIMUM INTEREST RATES.



Licensees under this chapter shall not charge a rate of interest in excess of
thirty percent (30%) for each 30-day period.  No additional charges or fees
shall be assessed or collected.



CHAPTER 124
HOUSE MOVERS



 

124.01  House Mover Defined
 
124.08  Permit Issued


124.02  Permit Required
 
124.09  Public Safety


124.03  Exceptions
 
124.10  Time Limit


124.04  Application
 
124.11  Removal by City


124.05  Bond Required
 
124.12  Protect Pavement


124.06  Insurance Required
 
124.13  Overhead Wires


124.07  Liability
 
124.14  Duties of Public Utilities



 



124.01  HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.



A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or
similar structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the
building or structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids,
jacks, dollies, or any other specialized moving equipment.



124.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.



It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building
or similar structure to be moved. 



124.03  EXCEPTIONS.



An exception to Section 124.02 is any building which is of such size that it
can be loaded upon any duly licensed truck and which can then be moved
without coming into contact with any utility lines or any other public
service corporation property.



124.04  APPLICATION.



Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the
Building Official.  The application shall include:



1.   Name and Address.  The applicant’s full name and address and if a
corporation the names and addresses of its principal officers.



2.   Building Location.  An accurate description of the present location
and future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.



3.   Routing Plan.  A routing plan approved by the Police Chief and
public utility officials.  The route approved shall be the shortest route
compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.



124.05  BOND REQUIRED.



The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) issued by a surety company authorized to
issue such bonds in the State.  The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s
payment for any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of
all costs incurred by the City in the course of moving the building or
structure.  Said bond shall remain in full force and effect for a period of
30 days after the same has been filed and after that date may be released by
the City if it is then determined that there is no damage for which the
bondsmen can be held liable.



124.06  INSURANCE REQUIRED.



Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration
of the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:



1.   Bodily Injury – $100,000.00 per person; $300,000.00 per accident.



2.   Property Damage – $100,000.00 per accident.



124.07  LIABILITY.



The owner of all moving equipment and the person moving any such building
shall be liable for all damage done to pavements, trees, wires or lines, or
other street improvements caused by moving such building.



124.08  PERMIT ISSUED.



Upon approval of the application and filing of bond and insurance
certificate, the Building Official shall issue a permit.



124.09  PUBLIC SAFETY.



At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag
persons at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure.  At all times when
the building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or
public property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights
at the intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of
the building or structure.



124.10  TIME LIMIT.



No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than twelve
(12) hours without having first secured the written approval of the City.



124.11  REMOVAL BY CITY.



In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section 124.10, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure
and assess the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the
permit holder’s bond.



124.12  PROTECT PAVEMENT.



It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each one thousand (1,000) pounds of weight of
such building.  If there is any question as to the weight of a house or
building, the estimate of the City as to such weight shall be final.



124.13  OVERHEAD WIRES.



The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone,
cable television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.  The
holder of the permit for moving a building shall give 24 hours’ notice to
the owners of any such wires and poles to remove such wires, and the owner of
such wires may either remove or direct the removal and replacing of such
wires, and the holder of the permit shall pay the reasonable costs thereof.



124.14  DUTIES OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.



After the service of the notice, as provided in Section 124.13, it shall be
the duty of any public service corporation whose property is located upon or
over the streets and alleys of the City and whose property is an obstruction
to the movement of said building over the streets and alleys, upon the
payment, if required, by the owner of said building, or the party moving the
same, of the reasonable expense of removing said obstructions and replacing
the same after the building has been moved, to temporarily remove said
obstruction so as to enable said building to pass the obstruction.



CHAPTER 125
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES



 

125.01  Definitions
 
125.04  Additional Regulations


125.02  Location of Adult Entertainment Businesses
 
125.05  Violations


125.03  Establishment of Adult Entertainment Business
 
 



 



125.01  DEFINITIONS.



The following terms are defined for use in this chapter:



1.   “Adult entertainment businesses” include the following:



   A.   “Adult amusement or entertainment” means an amusement or
entertainment which is distinguished or characterized by a predominant usage
of, display of, or emphasis on acts or material depicting, describing or
relating to sex acts or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, including, but not limited to, topless or bottomless dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainment.



   B.   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment having as a
predominant portion of its stock in trade books, film, magazines and other
periodicals or goods and items held for sale which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting or describing sex acts
or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.



   C.   “Adult hotel or motel” means a building with accommodations
used for the temporary occupancy of one or more individuals and is an
establishment wherein material is presented with is distinguished or
characterized by a predominant emphasis on depicting or describing sex acts
or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section, for observation by
the individuals therein.



   D.   “Adult motion picture arcade” means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained
to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and
where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting or describing sex acts or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section.



   E.   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building
used predominantly for presenting material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting or describing sex acts or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.



   F.   “Adult photo studio” is an establishment which, upon
payment of a fee, provides photographic equipment and/or models for the
purpose of photographing specified anatomical areas or sex acts, as defined
herein.



   G.   “Massage parlor” means any building, room, place or
establishment, where manipulated massage or manipulated exercise is practiced
for pay upon the human body with an emphasis on set acts or specified
anatomical areas, as defined herein, by anyone not a duly licensed physician,
nurse operating under a physician’s direction, physical therapist,
registered speech pathologist, or physical or occupational therapist who
treats only patients recommended by a licensed physician and operates only
under such physician’s direction, whether with or without the use of
mechanical, therapeutic or bathing devices, and includes Turkish bath
houses.  The term does not include a regular licensed hospital, medical
clinic or nursing home, duly licensed beauty parlors or barber shops, or
therapeutic massage not within the above prohibited conduct.



   H.   “Sexual encounter center” means any business, agency, or
person who, for any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where
three or more persons may congregate, assemble or associate for the primary
purpose of engaging in sex acts or exposing specified anatomical areas, as
defined in this section.



2.   “Sex act” means any sexual contact, actual or simulated, either
natural or deviate, between two or more persons, or between a person and an
animal, by penetration of the penis into the vagina or anus, or by contact
between the mouth or tongue and genitalia or anus, or by contract between a
finger of one person and the genitalia of another, or by use of artificial
sexual organs or substitute therefor in contact with the genitalia or anus.



3.   “Specified anatomical areas” includes the following:  human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks; and a female breast below a point above the
top of the areola.



125.02  LOCATION OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES.



No adult entertainment business, as defined in Section 125.01, shall be
established within 1,000 feet of another business, school, church, public
park, public playground, public plaza, day nursery, day care center, nursery
school, regularly scheduled school bus stop, or any dwelling (one-family,
two-family or multiple dwelling).  Licensed premises as defined in Section
123.3, subsection 20 of the Code of Iowa are exempt from the provisions of
this section but are still bound by the provisions of Chapter 728.5 of the
Code of Iowa, dealing with public indecent exposure in certain establishments.



125.03  ESTABLISHMENT OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.



The establishment of an adult entertainment business includes the opening of
such business as a new business, the relocation of such business, or the
conversion of an existing business location to any of the uses described as
an adult entertainment business.  Measurement of the 1,000-foot restriction
specified in Section 125.02 shall be taken on a direct line from the property
line of such adult entertainment business to the point on the property line
of another business, school, church, public park, public playground, public
plaza, day nursery, day care center, nursery school, regularly scheduled
school bus stop, or any dwelling (one-family, two-family or multiple
dwelling).



125.04  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.



1.   All buildings used for adult entertainment business shall have their
openings, entries, windows, etc., constructed, located, covered or screened
in such a manner as to prevent a view into the interior of such building from
any pedestrian sidewalk, walkway, street or other public or semi-public
area.  Advertisements, displays or other promotional materials shall not be
shown or exhibited so as to be visible to the public from the pedestrian
sidewalks, walkways, or other public or semi-public areas.



2.   No alcohol shall be permitted in any adult entertainment business,
unless specifically authorized by Iowa law.  This prohibition applies
equally to the proprietor and the patrons of the adult entertainment business.



3.   No minors, as defined in Chapter 46 of this Code of Ordinances, shall
be permitted in any adult entertainment business.



125.05  VIOLATIONS.



Violations of this chapter shall result in those penalties applicable to a
municipal infraction pursuant to Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances, for
each day or part thereof that the violation occurs.  In addition, the City
may maintain an action for injunctive relief to stop such prohibited
activities.



CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE



 

135.01  Removal of Warning Devices
 
135.08  Burning Prohibited


135.02  Obstructing or Defacing
 
135.09  Right-of-Way/Easement Use


135.03  Debris on Street or Alley
 
135.10  Maintenance of Parking or Terrace


135.04  Playing In
 
135.11  Failure to Maintain Parking or Terrace


135.05  Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
 
135.12  Dumping of Snow 


135.06  Use for Business Purposes
 
135.13  Driveway Culverts


135.07  Washing Vehicles
 
135.14  Temporary Street Obstruction



 



135.01  REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.



It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other article
or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon
for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said
street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1) 



135.02  OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.



It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or
alley in any manner.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)



135.03  DEBRIS ON STREET OR ALLEY.



It is unlawful for any person to throw, drop, dispose, place, or deposit on
any street or alley any glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash,
garbage, rubbish, litter, offal, urine, manure, leaves, grass, rock, soil
(including soil, rock, or debris displaced by runoff or erosion), gasoline,
oil, or any other debris or substance likely to be washed into the storm
sewer, or any substance or debris likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.  Cost incurred by the City for collection and/or cleanup shall be
assessed to the violator and may be collected by the City in any legal manner.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)



135.04  PLAYING IN.



It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])



135.05  TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.



It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer
or member of the Fire Department.



135.06  USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.



It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.



135.07  WASHING VEHICLES.



It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or
any vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. 
This does not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own
vehicle or equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.



135.08  BURNING PROHIBITED.



No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.



135.09  RIGHT-OF-WAY/EASEMENT USE.



No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking
or alley except in accordance with the following:



1.   Permit Required.  No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit therefor.  A written application for such permit shall be
filed with the City and shall contain the following:



   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number,
in front of or along which it is desired to excavate;



   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation
is to be made; and



   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface.



2.   Public Convenience.  Streets and alleys shall be opened in the
manner that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.



3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting.  Adequate barricades, fencing and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as
to protect the public from hazard.  Any costs incurred by the City in
providing or maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall
be paid to the City by the permit holder/property owner.



4.   Bond Required.  The applicant, whether a contractor or the property
owner, shall post security with the City in the amount of $2,000.00, either
in cash or a bond issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds
in the State of Iowa.  The surety shall guarantee payment for any damage
done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by
the City in the course of administration of this section. 



5.   Insurance Required.  Each applicant, whether a contractor or a
property owner, shall also file evidence of public liability insurance
covering all operations of the applicant and all equipment and vehicles in
the following minimum amounts:



   A.   Bodily Injury - $100,000.00 per person; $300,000.00 per
accident. 



   B.   Property Damage - $100,000.00 per accident.



6.   Restoration of Public Property.  Streets, sidewalks, alleys and
other public property, including excavations under roadways disturbed or
created in the course of the work shall be restored to the condition of the
property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner satisfactory
to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.



7.   Inspection.  All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. 
The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at least
forty-eight (48) hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired. 



8.   Completion by the City.  Should any excavation in any street or
alley be left open or unfinished for a period of twenty-four (24) hours or in
the event the work is improperly done, the City has the right to finish or
correct the excavation work and charge any expenses therefor to the permit
holder/property owner.



9.   Fees.  The fees for the permit and work performed by the City as
described herein are as follows:



   A.   Permit                  $   25.00 each
permit



   B.   Barricades and Lighting         $   20.00 each
permit



   C.   Saw Cut only               $   3.00 per
linear foot



   D.   Removal of Curb            $   7.00 per linear
foot



   E.   Remove and Replace Curb and Gutter   $   30.00 per linear
foot



   F.   Pavement Restoration            $   45.00 per
square yard



   G.   Curb Penetration            $   35.00 each



10.   Conditions of the Permit.  The following stipulations, along with
others that may be adopted by the Council, shall govern the permit.  It is
the sole responsibility of the applicant or permit holder to assure
compliance with them.



   A.   Responsibility for Costs.  All costs and expenses incident to
the excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. 
The permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.



   B.   Notification.  At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the
commencement of the excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays, the person performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide
Notification Center and provide the center with the information required
under Section 475.4 of the Code of Iowa.



11.   Permit Issued.  Upon approval of the application, filing of bond
and insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall
be issued.  A separate permit shall be required for each excavation.



12.   Permit Exemption.  Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section.  They shall, however, comply with
all other pertinent provisions and shall post with the City a yearly bond in
the amount of $5,000.00 to guarantee such compliance.



135.10  MAINTENANCE OF PARKING OR TERRACE.



It shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner to maintain all
property outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines upon
the public streets, except that the abutting property owner shall not be
required to remove diseased trees or dead wood on the publicly owned property
or right-of-way.  Maintenance includes timely mowing, trimming trees and
shrubs, and picking up litter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])



135.11  FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PARKING OR TERRACE.



If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in
the same manner as a property tax.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e]) 



135.12  DUMPING OF SNOW.



No property occupant, property owner, or person removing or responsible for
removing snow shall place snow removed from any sidewalk, privately owned
parking lot, or private driveway upon the traveled portion of any street or
alley, Main Street median, public parking lot, or upon the public
right-of-way across the traveled portion of a street from its point of
removal.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])



135.13  DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.



The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert
deemed necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s
property, and before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained
from the City.  In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to
culverts, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to make such
repairs, and, in the event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the
right to make the repairs.  If the property owner fails to reimburse the
City for the cost of said repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County
Treasurer and specially assessed against the property as by law provided.



135.14  TEMPORARY STREET OBSTRUCTION.



Any person who desires to occupy any part of the streets or alleys for any
purpose shall make application to the Police Chief, showing the nature of and
style of obstruction, and the permit can be denied or granted to the
applicant by the Police Chief for a specified period.  If granted, the
permit must be posted on or near said obstruction by the applicant, who shall
not be charged with offense if compliance is made with terms of the permit.



CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS



 



136.01  Purpose
 
136.10  Interference with Sidewalk Improvements


136.02  Definitions
 
136.11  Encroaching Steps


136.03  Removal of Snow, Ice, and Accumulations
 
136.12  Openings and Enclosures


136.04  Responsibility for Maintenance - Liability of Abutting Property Owner
 
136.13  Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks


136.05  City May Order Repairs
 
136.14  Defacing


136.06  Sidewalk Construction Ordered
 
136.15  Debris on Sidewalks


136.07  Sidewalk Standards
 
136.16  Merchandise Display


136.08  Barricades and Warning Lights
 
136.17  Sales Stands


136.09  Failure to Repair or Barricade
 
 




 



136.01  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.



136.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping
the sidewalk when it is hardening. 



2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or
more of the following characteristics:



   A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or more. 



   B.   Horizontal separations equal to one-half (½) inch or more.



   C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths (¾) inch or more
and at least four (4) inches in diameter. 



   D.   Spalling over fifty percent (50%) of a single square of the
sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to one-half (½) inch or more.



   E.   Spalling over less than fifty percent (50%) of a single square
of the sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths (¾) inch
or more. 



   F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no
part thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.   



   G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.



   H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or
greater than three-fourths (¾) inch per foot.



   I.   Noncompliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA)
standards and requirements.




(Ord. 1708 - Sep. 17 Supp.)




3.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for
the particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.   



4.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the
concrete is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.



5.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property
abutting any sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of
notification required herein.  For all other purposes, “owner” includes
the lessee, if any. 



6.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous
cement. 



7.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business,
residential or suburban areas.



8.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction,
repair, replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating,
filling or depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection
therewith. 



9.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by
smoothing the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.



136.03  REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.



It is the responsibility of the owner to remove snow, ice and accumulations
promptly from sidewalks and the owner shall be liable for injuries and
damages caused by the failure to use reasonable care in the removal of snow,
ice and accumulations.  If the owner does not remove snow, ice and
accumulations within a reasonable time and after receiving notice by the
City, the City may do so and assess the costs against the owner for
collection in the same manner as property tax.  If the City is required to
remove snow, ice and accumulations after notice, this action shall not
release or relieve the owner of liability imposed above.  The owner shall
further defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of Carroll, from and
against any claim, arising out of the failure to remove snow, ice and
accumulations.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])



(Ord. 1708 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



136.04  RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE - LIABILITY OF ABUTTING PROPERTY
OWNER.



It is the responsibility of the owner to repair, replace, reconstruct or
cause to be repaired, replaced or reconstructed, all defective sidewalks and
to maintain in a safe and hazard free condition any sidewalk abutting their
property.  The owner shall be liable to any person who may incur injuries
and/or damages as a result of or caused by the failure of the owner to use
reasonable care in the repair, replacement or reconstruction of defective
sidewalks.  Defective sidewalks are declared public nuisance.  The owner
shall further defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City of Carroll, from
and against any claim, arising out of the failure to maintain the owner's
sidewalk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c]) 



(Ord. 1708 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



136.05  CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.



If the owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the City may serve
notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner to repair,
replace or reconstruct defective sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the City
may perform the required action and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as property tax.  If the City is
required to repair, replace or reconstruct defective sidewalks after notice,
this action shall not release or relieve the owner of liability imposed by
this Chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])



(Ord. 1708 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



136.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.



The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)



136.07  SIDEWALK STANDARDS.



Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall constructed in accordance with the plans and specifications on
file in the office of the Public Works Director.



136.08  BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.



Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or
when any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all
persons having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner,
agent, or lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may
be deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous
places at each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material
deposited in the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or
flares, and to keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect
sufficient barricades both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. 
The party or parties using the street for any of the purposes specified in
this chapter shall be liable for all injuries or damage to persons or
property arising from any wrongful act or negligence of the party or parties,
or their agents or employees or for any misuse of the privileges conferred by
this chapter or of any failure to comply with provisions hereof.



136.09  FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.



It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.



136.10  INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.



No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or
upon any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall
remove or destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or
shall remove, destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy,
mar, remove or deface any notice provided by this chapter.



136.11  ENCROACHING STEPS.



It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of
the Council.



136.12  OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.



It is unlawful for a person to:



1.   Stairs and Railings.  Construct or build a stairway or passageway to
any cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose
any portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of
the Council. 



2.   Openings.  Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault
on any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect
the public. 



3.   Protect Openings.  Neglect to properly protect or barricade all
openings on or within six (6) feet of any sidewalk.



136.13  FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.



It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.



136.14  DEFACING.



It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing
on any sidewalk.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)   



136.15  DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.



It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2]) 



136.16  MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.



It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three (3) feet of the sidewalk next to the building be
occupied for such purposes.



136.17  SALES STANDS.



It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.



CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS



 

137.01  Power to Vacate
 
137.04  Findings Required


137.02  Planning and Zoning Commission
 
137.05  Disposal of Vacated Streets or Alleys


137.03  Notice of Vacation Hearing
 
137.06  Disposal by Gift Limited



 



137.01  POWER TO VACATE.



When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])



137.02  PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.



Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
grounds shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for its study and recommendation prior to further consideration by
the Council.  The Commission shall submit a written report including
recommendations to the Council within thirty (30) days after the date the
proposed vacation is referred to the Commission. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)



137.03  NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.



The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.



137.04  FINDINGS REQUIRED.



No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:



1.   Public Use.  The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
ground proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and
therefore, its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified. 



2.   Abutting Property.  The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.



137.05  DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.



When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public
ground, the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section
364.7, Code of Iowa.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)



137.06  DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.



The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])



 



EDITOR’S NOTE


The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.


ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED
 
ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED
 
ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED


4
 
4-8-46
 
7602
 
1-27-76
 
 


7
 
9-17-46
 
7606
 
2-25-76
 
 


16
 
12-19-47
 
7607
 
3-15-76
 
 


20
 
5-14-48
 
7616
 
9-13-76
 
 


33
 
4-7-49
 
7914
 
9-10-79
 
 


39
 
6-7-50
 
7919
 
12-10-79
 
 


41
 
10-13-49
 
8104
 
6-22-81
 
 


42
 
10-13-49
 
8109
 
8-24-81
 
 


43
 
11-10-49
 
8404
 
3-26-84
 
 


44
 
1-18-50
 
8412
 
7-10-84
 
 


58
 
11-29-50
 
8417
 
10-8-85
 
 


60
 
1-2-51
 
8512
 
8-26-85
 
 


61
 
1-2-51
 
8513
 
8-26-85
 
 


63
 
3-5-51
 
8604
 
3-10-86
 
 


70
 
7-6-51
 
8605
 
3-24-86
 
 


82
 
4-30-52
 
9108
 
8-12-91
 
 


83
 
5-7-52
 
9231
 
11-9-92
 
 


87
 
5-27-53
 
9313
 
9-27-93
 
 


91
 
11-10-53
 
9610
 
6-24-96
 
 


92
 
11-16-53
 
9702
 
2-10-97
 
 


93
 
3-8-54
 
9806
 
3-9-98
 
 


94
 
3-8-54
 
9807
 
3-9-98
 
 


107
 
4-4-55
 
9815
 
5-7-98
 
 


110
 
10-3-55
 
9816
 
5-7-98
 
 


112
 
2-27-56
 
0011
 
8-14-00
 
 


114
 
3-26-56
 
0109
 
7-9-01
 
 


115
 
4-9-56
 
0203
 
3-25-02
 
 


126
 
12-4-57
 
1111
 
11-14-11
 
 


157
 
12-4-61
 
 
 
 


166
 
7-23-62
 
 
 
 


186
 
3-21-66
 
 
 
 


189
 
7-21-66
 
 
 
 


C682
 
2-5-68
 
 
 
 


C686
 
3-11-68
 
 
 
 


C687
 
4-8-68
 
 
 
 


C691
 
6-4-69
 
 
 
 


C695
 
8-4-69
 
 
 
 


C696
 
10-14-69
 
 
 
 


C703
 
6-1-70
 
 
 
 


C711
 
1-18-71
 
 
 
 


C71-14
 
12-13-71
 
 
 
 


72-1
 
1-3-72
 
 
 
 


C72-3
 
2-3-72
 
 
 
 


C72-5
 
4-3-72
 
 
 
 


C72-19
 
12-27-72
 
 
 
 


C732
 
5-7-73
 
 
 
 


7601
 
1-27-76
 
 
 
 




 



CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES



 

138.01  Established Grades
 
138.02  Record Maintained



 



138.01  ESTABLISHED GRADES.



The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.



138.02  RECORD MAINTAINED.



The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.



 



EDITOR’S NOTE


The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.


ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED
 
ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED
 
ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED


116
 
4-30-56
 
8421
 
11-19-84
 
 


129
 
5-5-58
 
8424
 
12-17-84
 
 


130
 
8-25-58
 
8716
 
12-14-87
 
 


131
 
9-22-58
 
8911
 
7-10-89
 
 


147
 
5-9-60
 
8922
 
11-13-89
 
 


148
 
7-20-60
 
9004
 
3-12-90
 
 


165
 
6-29-62
 
9203
 
3-9-92
 
 


169
 
9-27-62
 
9221
 
6-22-92
 
 


177
 
4-13-64
 
9301
 
2-8-93
 
 


182
 
8-10-64
 
9303
 
3-8-93
 
 


C676
 
6-19-67
 
9401
 
1-11-94
 
 


C697
 
10-14-69
 
9419
 
9-26-94
 
 


C724
 
3-13-72
 
9627
 
12-23-96
 
 


C-18-72
 
11-13-72
 
9723
 
10-27-97
 
 


C-73-5
 
8-18-73
 
9724
 
11-10-97
 
 


C7407
 
9-9-74
 
9727
 
12-22-97
 
 


7806
 
3-13-78
 
9801
 
1-12-98
 
 


8005
 
3-10-80
 
9808
 
3-9-98
 
 


8017
 
6-23-80
 
9810
 
3-23-98
 
 


8018
 
6-23-80
 
9811
 
3-30-98
 
 


8019
 
6-23-80
 
9901
 
11-11-99
 
 


8022
 
10-27-80
 
0013
 
11-13-00
 
 


8023
 
10-27-80
 
0210
 
7-22-02
 
 


8111
 
9-28-81
 
0510
 
9-12-05
 
 


8112
 
9-28-81
 
0516
 
12-12-05
 
 


8113
 
10-26-81
 
0605
 
5-22-06
 
 


8214
 
11-8-82
 
0609
 
7-24-06
 
 


8216
 
12-13-82
 
1204
 
4-23-12
 
 


8302
 
2-28-83
 
1312
 
10-28-13
 
 


8314
 
10-10-83
 
1610
 
8-8-16
 
 


8414
 
9-10-84
 
1709
 
8-14-17
 
 


8415
 
9-21-84
 
1711
 
12-11-17
 
 




 



CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS



 

139.01  Naming New Streets
 
139.04  Official Street Name Map


139.02  Changing Name of Street
 
139.05  Revision of Street Name Map


139.03  Recording Street Names
 
 



 



139.01  NAMING NEW STREETS.



New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:



1.   Extension of Existing Street.  Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.



2.   Ordinance.  All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by ordinance. 



3.   Planning and Zoning Commission.  Proposed street names shall be
referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.



139.02  CHANGING NAME OF STREET.



The Council may, by ordinance, change the name of a street.



139.03  RECORDING STREET NAMES.



Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor, and
County Assessor.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)



139.04  OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.



Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.  The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature
of the Mayor, and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: 
“This is to certify that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to
in Section 139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Carroll, Iowa.”



139.05  REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.



If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Council with an entry
on the Official Street Name Map as follows:  “On (date), by official
action of the City Council, the following changes were made in the Official
Street Name Map:  (brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the
Mayor and attested by the Clerk.  No amendment to this chapter which
involves naming or changing the name of a street shall become effective until
after such change and entry have been made on said map.



 



EDITOR’S NOTE


The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted naming certain streets and remain in full force and
effect.


ORDINANCE NO.
 
ADOPTED


8408
 
4-23-84


8423
 
12-10-84


9317
 
11-22-93


0108
 
6-11-01


0818
 
10-27-08


 




 



CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES



 

140.01  Exercise of Police Power
 
140.05  Unlawful Use of Controlled Access Facility


140.02  Definition
 
140.06  Speed Limits


140.03  Right of Access Limited
 
140.07  Parking Restricted


140.04  Access Controls Imposed
 
 



 



140.01  EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.



This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City
under Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1) 



140.02  DEFINITION.



The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street
especially designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or
occupants of abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only
a controlled right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of
the fact that their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or
for any other reason.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2) 



140.03  RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.



No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto
or across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4) 



140.04  ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.



There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within
the City, described as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3) 



1.   Project No. U-721 and FN-721.  On the Primary Road System extension
improvement, Project No. U-721 and FN-721, Primary Road No. U.S. 30, within
the City, described as follows:



From Station 574+02 to Station 625+82,



regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No.
U-721 and FN-721, on file in the office of the Clerk.



2.   Project No. FN-154 & F154(5).  On the Primary Road System extension
improvement, Project No. FN-154 & F154(5), Primary Road No. U.S. 71, within
the City, described as follows:



From Station 870+40 to Station 949+05,



regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No.
FN-154 & F154(5), on file in the office of the Clerk.



140.05  UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY.



It is unlawful for any person to:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3 and 321.366)



1.   Cross Dividing Line.  Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across any
curb, central dividing section, or other separation or dividing line on such
controlled access facilities.



2.   Turns.  Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn except through
an opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section,
separation, or line.



3.   Use of Lanes.  Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided
for that purpose and in the proper direction and to the right of the central
dividing curb, separation, section, or line.



4.   Enter Facility.  Drive any vehicle into the controlled access
facility from a local service road except through an opening provided for
that purpose in the dividing curb or dividing section or dividing line that
separates such service road from the controlled access facility property. 



140.06  SPEED LIMITS.



The maximum speed limits on said projects are hereby established as follows:



1.   U.S. 30.  Speed limits on U.S. 30 are as follows:



   A.   45 mph from 300 feet west of Burgess Avenue to 750 feet west of
U.S. 71.



   B.   35 mph from 750 feet west of U.S. 71 to 50 feet west of
Crawford Street.



   C.   25 mph from 50 feet west of Crawford Street to 50 feet east of
Clark Street.



   D.   35 mph from 50 feet east of Clark Street to 1,000 feet east of
Vine Street.



   E.   45 mph from 1,000 feet east of Vine Street to 50 feet east of
Griffith Road.



2.   U.S. 71.  Speed limits on U.S. 71 are as follows:



   A.   45 mph from 1850 feet south of Third Street to 450 feet south
of Third Street.



   B.   35 mph from 450 feet south of Third Street to 200 feet north of
Eighteenth Street.



   C.   45 mph from 200 feet north of Eighteenth Street to 2,350 feet
north of Eighteenth Street.



140.07  PARKING RESTRICTED.



The parking of vehicles on or along controlled access facilities is
restricted as follows:



1.   Minor Street Approaches.  Parking shall be prohibited on all minor
street approaches for a distance of thirty-five (35) feet in advance of the
stop sign. 



2.   Minor Street Exits.  Parking shall be prohibited on the exit side of
a minor street for a distance of 35 feet.



3.   Project No. U-721 & FN-721.  Parking of any nature is prohibited on
Project No. U-721 & FN-721 in its entirety.



4.   Project No. FN-154 & F154(5).  Parking of any nature is prohibited
on Project No. FN-154 & F154(5) in its entirety.



CHAPTER 141
CURB LINES



 

141.01  Ratification of Curb Lines
 
141.03  Establishment of New Curb Lines


141.02  Establishment of Curb Lines
 
 



 



141.01  RATIFICATION OF CURB LINES.



The curb lines of all streets, avenues, and thoroughfares that have
heretofore been established by ordinance are hereby ratified, confirmed and
established as the official curb lines.



141.02  ESTABLISHMENT OF CURB LINES.



The curb lines of all streets, avenues, and thoroughfares upon which curbs
have been constructed, and which have not heretofore been established by
ordinance, are hereby determined to be those curb lines currently placed on
said streets, and said curb lines are hereby ratified, confirmed, and
established as the official curb lines.



141.03  ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW CURB LINES.



The Council may, by resolution, establish curb lines upon any new or existing
streets.



CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS



 

145.01  Enforcement Officer
 
145.05  Conduct of Hearing


145.02  General Definition of Unsafe
 
145.06  Posting of Signs


145.03  Unsafe Building
 
145.07  Right to Demolish; Municipal Infraction


145.04  Notice to Owner
 
145.08  Costs



 



145.01  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.



The Building Official is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.



145.02  GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.



All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings.  All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to
be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this
chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 & 364.12[3a]) 



145.03  UNSAFE BUILDING.



“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all
of the following criteria:



1.   Various Inadequacies.  Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii)
faulty construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any
portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
(iv) the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any
other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.



2.   Manifestly Unsafe.  Whenever, for any reason, the building or
structure, or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for
which it is being used.



3.   Inadequate Maintenance.  Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health
officer to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition
that it is likely to cause sickness or disease.



4.   Fire Hazard.  Whenever any building or structure, because of
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined
by the Fire Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.



5.   Abandoned.  Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains
on a site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
(6) months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.



145.04  NOTICE TO OWNER.



The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building
or structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such
is found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof.  This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within forty-eight (48) hours or such
reasonable time as the circumstances require, to commence either the required
repairs or improvements or demolition and removal of the building or
structure or portions thereof, and all such work shall be completed within
ninety (90) days from date of notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the
enforcement officer.  If necessary, such notice shall also require the
building, structure, or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith and not
reoccupied until the required repairs and improvements are completed,
inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h]) 



1.   Notice Served.  Such notice shall be served by sending by certified
mail to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of
Iowa, if the owner is found within the City limits.  If the owner is not
found within the City limits such service may be made upon the owner by
registered mail or certified mail.  The designated period within which said
owner or person in charge is required to comply with the order of the
enforcement officer shall begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.



2.   Hearing.  Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written
request for hearing within the time provided in the notice.



145.05  CONDUCT OF HEARING.



If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:



1.   Notice.  The owner shall be served with written notice specifying
the date, time and place of hearing.



2.   Owner’s Rights.  At the hearing, the owner may appear and show
cause why the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.



3.   Determination.  The Council shall make and record findings of fact
and may issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 7



145.06  POSTING OF SIGNS.



The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read:  “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF
CARROLL, IOWA.”  Such notice shall remain posted until the required
demolition, removal or repairs are completed.  Such notice shall not be
removed without written permission of the enforcement officer and no person
shall enter the building except for the purpose of making the required
repairs or of demolishing the building.



145.07  RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.



In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted
as a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice.  A statement of
the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council.  As an
alternative to this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction
process to abate the nuisance.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



145.08  COSTS.



Costs incurred under Section 145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. 
Such costs shall be charged to the owner of the premises involved and levied
as a special assessment against the land on which the building or structure
is located, and shall be certified to the County Treasurer for collection in
the manner provided for other taxes.  In addition, the City may take any
other action deemed appropriate to recover costs incurred. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h]) 



 


Notes

7 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order
of the Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the
APPENDIX to this Code of Ordinances.  Caution is urged in the use of this
procedure.  We recommend you review the situation with your attorney before
initiating procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.



CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES



 

146.01  Definitions
 
146.03  Foundation Requirements


146.02  Conversion to Real Property
 
 



 



146.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)



1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under
the authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June
15, 1976, and is required by Federal law to display a seal from the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development.



2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or
tract of land under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied
manufactured homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and includes any building, structure or enclosure used or intended
for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home community.



3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one
or more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa.  A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or Federal seals.



4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field or tract of land
upon which three (3) or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a
combination of any of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and
operated as a for-profit enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and
electrical services available. 



The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not
to be construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or
other structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational
institution, or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house
said entity’s own labor or students.  The manufactured home community or
mobile home park shall meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that
are in effect.



146.02  CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.



A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured
home community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being
placed on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes
except in the following cases:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26 & Sec. 435.35)



1.   Retailer’s Stock.  Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a
place for human habitation.



2.   Existing Homes.  A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt
from the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.



146.03  FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.



A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code.  The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation
systems of surrounding residential structures.  Any such home shall be
installed in accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 & 414.28)



CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING



 

150.01  Definitions
 
150.03  Building Numbering Plan


150.02  Owner Requirements
 
 



 



150.01  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building. 



2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or
subdivision thereof.



150.02  OWNER REQUIREMENTS.



Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:



1.   Obtain Building Number.  The owner shall obtain the assigned number
to the principal building from the Public Works Director



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])



2.   Display Building Number.  The owner shall place or cause to be
installed and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a
conspicuous place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half
(2½) inches in height and of a contrasting color with their background.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])



3.   Failure to Comply.  If an owner refuses to number a building as
herein provided, or fails to do so for a period of thirty (30) days after
being notified in writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place
the assigned number on the principal building and assess the costs against
the property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])



150.03  BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.



Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Public Works Director.



CHAPTER 151
TREES



 

151.01  Definition
 
151.05  Disease Control


151.02  Planting Restrictions
 
151.06  Inspection and Removal


151.03  Duty to Trim Trees
 
151.07  Shrubbery


151.04  Trimming Trees to be Supervised
 
151.08  Intersections



 



151.01  DEFINITION.



For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue,
or highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line
and the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic. 



151.02  PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.



No trees or shrubs shall be planted upon any street right-of-way nearer than
twelve (12) feet to the curb line, and all trees and shrubs, no matter when
planted and wherever situated in the street right-of-way, shall be maintained
by the abutting property owner.  Trees and shrubs planted in street
right-of-ways prior to September 13, 1972, shall be permitted to remain as
planted pursuant to the ordinances and laws existing at the time of planting,
but shall not be replaced.  The aforesaid limitation shall not apply on Main
Street from its intersection with Bluff Street northerly to its intersection
with Thirteenth Street, on which portion street plantings may be placed no
nearer than eight (8) feet to curb line.



151.03  DUTY TO TRIM TREES.



The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the streets, trimmed so that all branches will be at least
sixteen and one-half (16.5) feet above the surface of the roadway and eight
and one-half (8.5) feet above the sidewalks.  If the abutting property owner
fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on the abutting property
owner requiring that such action be taken within five (5) days.  If such
action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the costs against the abutting property for collection in
the same manner as a property tax.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])



151.04  TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.



Except as allowed in Section 151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or
cut any tree in a street or public place unless the work is done under the
supervision of the City.



151.05  DISEASE CONTROL.



Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect
or disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.



151.06  INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.



The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees
and shrubs shall be subject to the following:



1.   City Property.  If it is determined that any such condition exists
on any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line
of private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal.  The Council may also order the removal of any trees
on the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or
with travel thereon.



2.   Private Property.  If it is determined with reasonable certainty
that any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other
trees or to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is
imminent, the Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or
person in charge of such property to correct such condition by treatment or
removal within fourteen (14) days of said notification.  If such owner,
occupant, or person in charge of said property fails to comply within 14 days
of receipt of notice, the Council may cause the condition to be corrected and
the cost assessed against the property. 



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])



151.07  SHRUBBERY.



All shrubbery, bushes and other growth within the confines of any area
between the outer line of the sidewalk and curb, or if there be no curb, the
surface portion of the street, shall be kept trimmed and pruned by the owner
of the premises abutting so as not to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on the streets or sidewalks.



151.08  INTERSECTIONS.



At or near intersections, all trees and shrubbery shall be so trimmed and
pruned as to give clear vision to all vehicular traffic approaching from any
direction.



CHAPTER 155
BUILDING CODE



 



155.01  Short Title
 
155.23  Electrical Permit Fees


155.02  Purpose
 
155.24  Plan Checking Fees


155.03  Adoption of State Building Code
 
155.25  Expiration of Plan Check


155.04  Copies Filed
 
155.26  Reinspection Fee


155.05  Building Official
 
155.27  Other Inspection Fees


155.06  Board of Appeals
 
155.28  Penalty Fee


155.07  Permits Required
 
155.29  Inspection Required


155.08  Emergency Work
 
155.30  placeLot Survey


155.09  Permit Applications
 
155.31  Concealed Work


155.10  Indemnity
 
155.32  Inspection Record Card


155.11  Plans and Specifications
 
155.33  Approvals Required


155.12  Plan Review
 
155.34  Required Inspections


155.13  Plan Approval
 
155.35  Maintenance


155.14  Partial Plans
 
155.36  Special Inspections


155.15  Retention of Plans
 
155.37  Special Inspector


155.16  Issuance of Permits
 
155.38  Approved Fabricators


155.17  Validity
 
155.39  Request for Inspection


155.18  Expiration of Permit
 
155.40  Access


155.19  Suspension or Revocation
 
155.41  Power, Fuel and Water Supply Connections


155.20  Building Permit Fees
 
155.42  Certificate of Occupancy


155.21  Mechanical Permit Fees
 
155.43  Violations


155.22  Plumbing Permit Fees
 
155.44  Penalty




 



155.01  SHORT TITLE.



This chapter shall be known as the Carroll, Iowa, Building Code, and may be
cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”



155.02  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to protect public health, property, welfare
and safety by establishing reasonable minimum requirements for the
construction, repair, moving, demolition and use of buildings, structures and
related equipment, fixtures and systems.



155.03  ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.



Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the Iowa
State Building Code, promulgated pursuant to Chapter 103A of the Code of
Iowa, including the one- and two-family dwelling code, is hereby adopted by
reference.  The Building Code shall be amended as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10[2b] and Sec. 380.10)



1.   Section 3206.3 “Projections” shall be amended to permit awnings
to protrude no closer than two feet from the curb line, nor shall any awning
protrude to within 12 inches of any light pole or attachment thereon, nor
within 12 inches of the sight line from one light pole and attachments to the
next, in the B-3 District.



2.   Section 3206.4 “Clearances” shall be amended to require a minimum
clearance of 8 feet for all awnings including valances in the B-3 District.



155.04  COPIES FILED.



Official copies of the aforementioned Iowa State Building Code, the standard
codes adopted therein, and a certified copy of this chapter are on file in
the office of the Clerk.  Certified copies of this chapter are also on file
in the office of the State Building Code Commissioner and in the office of
the Secretary of State.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.12 and Sec. 380.8)



155.05  BUILDING OFFICIAL.



The City Manager shall appoint the Building Official, who is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this chapter.  The
Building Official shall have the following powers and duties:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])



1.   Deputies.  In accordance with established procedure and with the
approval of the City Manager, the Building Official may appoint a chief plans
examiner, a chief building inspector and other related technical officers and
inspectors and other employees as shall be authorized from time to time. 



2.   Right of Entry.  Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this chapter or whenever the Building Official, or
an authorized representative, has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises, any condition which makes such
building or premises unsafe as defined in this chapter, the Building
Official, or an authorized representative, may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty
imposed upon the Building Official by this chapter; provided that if such
building or premises be occupied, the Building Official shall first present
proper credentials and request entry; and if such building or premises be
unoccupied, the Building Official shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the building or
premises and request entry.  If such entry is refused, the Building
Official, or an authorized representative, shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.  When the Building Official, or an
authorized representative, shall have first obtained a proper inspection
warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant
or any other person having charge, care or control of any building or
premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein
provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Building Official, or an
authorized representative, for the purpose of inspection and examination
pursuant to this chapter. 



3.   Stop Orders.  Whenever any work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the Building Official may order the work stopped
by notice in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing
such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work
until authorized by the Building Official to proceed with the work. 



4.   Occupancy Violations.  Whenever any building or structure or
equipment therein regulated by this chapter is being used contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the Building Official may order such use
discontinued and the structure (or portion thereof) vacated by notice served
on any person causing such use to be continued.  Such person shall
discontinue the use within the time prescribed by the Building Official after
receipt of such notice or make the structure (or portion thereof) comply with
the requirements of this chapter.



5.   Liability.  The Building Official or any authorized representative
charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting in good faith and
without malice in the discharge of duties, shall not thereby be personally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act or omission in the discharge of such duties.  Any suit brought
against the Building Official or employees because of such act or omission
performed by them in the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter, shall
be defended by legal counsel provided by the City until final termination of
the proceedings.  This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or
lessen the responsibility of any person owning, operating, or controlling any
building or structure for any damages to persons or property caused by
defects, nor shall the code enforcement agency or the City be held as
assuming any such liability by reason of the inspections authorized by this
chapter or any certificates of inspection under this chapter.



6.   Cooperation of Other Officials.  The Building Official may request,
and shall receive so far as may be necessary in the discharge of any duties,
the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the City.



155.06  BOARD OF APPEALS.



A Board of Appeals is hereby created.  The Council shall approve Mayoral
appointment of a Board of Appeals consisting of five members who are
qualified by experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to
building construction.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.13; IAC 630-5.3[5])



1.   Term.  Board members are appointed for staggered terms of five (5)
years.  Any vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term.



2.   Compensation.  All members shall serve without compensation.



3.   Secretary.  The Board shall appoint a person to serve as the
Secretary of the Board.  In the absence of the Secretary, the Chairperson
may appoint another to serve for the meeting.  The Secretary shall keep
minutes of proceedings; showing the vote of each member upon question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall keep records of any
official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the Clerk.



4.   Chairperson and Meetings.  The Board shall annually elect a
Chairperson at the first meeting on or after January 1 of each year.  The
Board shall have the power to call on any City department for assistance in
the performance of its duties and it shall be the duty of each department to
render such assistance.



5.   Quorum.  The presence of three (3) members shall be necessary for a
quorum and the concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be
necessary on all matters upon which it is required to consider.  The
Chairperson or acting Chairperson is a voting member of the Board.



6.   Rules and Regulations.  The Board shall adopt, from time to time,
subject to the approval of the Council, such rules and regulations as it may
deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter.



7.   Appeals.  Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved,
or by any officer, department or board of the City affected by any decision
of the Building Official.  Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time as provided by the rules of the Board by filing with the Building
Official written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.  The
Building Official shall transmit to the Board all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from is taken.  All decisions of the
Board relating to alternate materials and methods must be forwarded to the
State Building Code Commissioner for review and may be denied by the
commissioner.



8.   Effect of Appeal.  An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the Building Official certifies to the Board
that a stay would, in the opinion of the Building Official, cause imminent
peril to life or property.  In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by
a court of record on application or notice to the officer from whom appeal
was taken on due cause shown.



9.   Powers.  The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Building Official in the enforcement of State law
or any ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.  The Board shall have the power
to review requests for use of alternate materials and methods of construction
as prescribed in Section 103A.13 of the Code of Iowa.  Persons submitting
such request shall provide sufficient evidence or proof to substantiate any
claim that may be made regarding alternate use.  If the Board approves such
request, the action shall be submitted to the State Building Code
Commissioner for approval.  The approval of the Board is not effective until
approved by the State Building Code Commissioner in writing. 



10.   Initiation of an Appeal.  An application by an aggrieved person for
an appeal shall be filed with the Building Official.  The application shall
be accompanied by adequate drawings and other descriptive materials
constituting a record essential to understanding the appeal requested.  The
application shall also be accompanied by a fee of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) payable to the General Fund of the City.



11.   Notice of Meeting.  Notice of the time and place of the Board’s
meeting and of the purpose shall be given by the Building Official not less
than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting.



155.07  PERMITS REQUIRED.



Permits shall be required as follows:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[6])



1.   New Construction.  No person shall erect or construct a new building
or structure in the City, or cause the same to be done, without first
obtaining a separate building permit for each such building or structure from
the Building Official.



2.   Existing Structures.  No person shall enlarge, alter, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish any existing building or structure in the City,
or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate building
permit for each such building or structure from the Building Official
provided that the proposed work exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in
value.



3.   Mechanical – New Construction.  No person shall install, alter,
reconstruct or repair any heating, ventilating, cooling, or refrigeration
equipment within or on a new building or structure unless a permit therefor
has been obtained from the Building Official except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.  A permit shall not be required for the following: 



   A.   Any portable heating appliance.



   B.   Any portable ventilating equipment.



   C.   Any portable cooling unit.



   D.   Any steam, hot, or chilled water piping within any heating or
cooling equipment regulated by this chapter. 



   E.   Replacement of any component part or assembly of an appliance
which does not alter its original approval and complies with other applicable
requirements of this chapter. 



   F.   Any portable evaporative cooler.   



   G.   Any refrigerating equipment which is a part of the equipment
for which a permit has been issued pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter. 



   H.   Any unit refrigerating system.



4.   Mechanical – Existing Structures.  No person shall install, alter,
reconstruct or repair any heating, ventilating, cooling, or refrigeration
equipment within or on an existing building or structure unless a permit
therefor has been obtained from the Building Official, provided that the
proposed mechanical work exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in value or
in the case of issuance of mechanical and plumbing permits for the building
or structure that the combination of mechanical and plumbing work exceeds one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in value.



5.   Plumbing – New Construction.  No person shall install any plumbing
or drainage system or part thereof as defined in the Plumbing Code adopted by
this chapter within or on a new building or structure unless a permit
therefor has been obtained from the Building Official.   



6.   Plumbing – Existing Structures.  No person shall install, alter or
reconstruct any plumbing or drainage system or part thereof as defined in the
Plumbing Code adopted by this chapter within or on an existing building or
structure unless a permit therefor has been obtained from the Building
Official provided that the proposed plumbing work exceeds one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) in value, or, in the case of issuance of plumbing and
mechanical permits for the same building or structure, that the combination
of plumbing and mechanical work exceeds $1,000.00 in value.



7.   Electrical – New Construction.  No person shall install any
electrical conductor or equipment subject to the provisions of the Electrical
Code adopted by this chapter within or on a new building or structure unless
a permit therefor has been obtained from the Building Official.



8.   Electrical – Existing Structures.  No person shall install, alter,
reconstruct or repair any electrical conductor or equipment subject to the
provisions of the Electrical Code adopted by this chapter within or on any
existing building or structure unless a permit therefor has been obtained
from the Building Official, provided that the electrical work exceeds five
hundred dollars ($500.00) in value.



155.08  EMERGENCY WORK.



In emergency situations, work may be initiated without first submitting a
permit .application and receiving a permit therefor.  However, a permit
application must be submitted within a reasonable time after the passage of
the critical period.  With this one exception, all emergency work must be
done in accordance with this chapter.



155.09  PERMIT APPLICATIONS.



Application for permit shall be made as follows:



1.   Building Permit.  To obtain a building permit the applicant shall
first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished for that
purpose.  Every such application shall:



   A.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;



   B.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by
lot, block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;



   C.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;



   D.   Be accompanied by plans and specifications a required in
Section 155.11 of this chapter;



   E.   State the valuation of the proposed work;



   F.   Be signed by the permittee or an authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;



   G.   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by
the Building Official.



2.   Mechanical Permit.  To obtain a mechanical permit, the applicant
shall file an application on forms furnished for that purpose.  The
application shall contain all information necessary to the lawful enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter.



3.   Plumbing Permit.  To obtain a plumbing permit, the applicant shall
file an application on forms furnished for that purpose.  The application
shall contain all information necessary to the lawful enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.



4.   Electrical Permit.  To obtain an electrical permit, the applicant
shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form provided for
that purpose.  The application shall include the name and business address
of the person that is to do the work, a description of the property where the
work is to be done, the name of the owner of the property, the name of the
occupant, and a general description of the materials to be used, and shall
specify the particular part or parts of the work that must be inspected as
required by this chapter.



155.10  INDEMNITY.



The applicant for any permits under this chapter, by making such application,
assumes and agrees to pay for all loss or damage to property whatsoever, and
injury to or death to any person or persons whomsoever, including all cost
and expenses incident thereto, however arising from or in connection with or
related to the issuance of such permit or the doing of anything thereunder or
the failure of such applicant, or the agents, employees or servants of such
applicant, to abide by or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of
Ordinances, or and such applicant, by making such application, forever
indemnifies the City and agrees to save it harmless from any and all claims,
demands, lawsuits or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury or
death, costs and expenses, by reason of the foregoing even though acts or
omissions of the City may have caused or contributed thereto.  The foregoing
provisions shall be deemed to be a part of any permit issued under this
chapter whether expressly recited therein or not.



155.11  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.



With each application for a building permit, and when required by the
Building Official for enforcement of any provisions of this chapter, two (2)
sets of plans and specifications shall be submitted, the Building Official
may require such plans and specifications to be prepared and designed by an
engineer or architect licensed by the State to practice as such.  Plans and
specifications when required shall be of sufficient detail and clarity to
show that the proposed work will conform to the provisions of this chapter
and of all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders.  The
Building Official may waive the filing of plans and specifications with an
application for the following:



1.   One-story buildings of conventional wood-stud construction with an
area not exceeding six hundred (600) square feet.



2.   Private garages, carports, sheds, and agricultural buildings of
conventional wood-stud construction.



3.   Small and unimportant work.



155.12  PLAN REVIEW.



Required plans and specifications shall be checked by the Building
Official.  Such plans may be reviewed by other City departments or personnel
to check compliance with the laws and ordinances under their jurisdiction.



155.13  PLAN APPROVAL.



If checked and the plans and specifications, as filed, appear to conform to
the requirements of this chapter and other laws and ordinances, the Building
Official may endorse in writing or stamp on all sets of plans and
specifications, “APPROVED.”  Plans and specifications shall not be
changed, modified, or altered without authorization from the Building
Official, and all work shall be done in accordance with the approved plans.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[1])



155.14  PARTIAL PLANS.



The  Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of part of a
building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for the
whole building or structure have been submitted or approved; provided
adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with
all pertinent requirements of this chapter.  The holder of such permit shall
proceed at said holder’s own risk without assurance that the permit for the
entire building or structure will be granted.



155.15  RETENTION OF PLANS.



One set of plans, specifications, and computations shall be retained by the
Building Official for a period of not less than ninety (90) days from date of
completion of the work covered therein, and one set of plans and
specifications shall be returned to the applicant, which set shall be kept on
such building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby
is in progress.



155.16  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.



When the Building Official is satisfied that the work described in an
application for permit and the plans and specifications filed therewith, if
required, conforms to the requirements of this chapter and other pertinent
laws and ordinances including any applicable soil erosion control plans, and
that the fees as specified have been paid in full, the Building Official may
issue a permit therefor to the applicant.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[4])



155.17  VALIDITY.



The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and specifications
shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter.  No permit presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this chapter shall be valid,
except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is lawful.  The
issuance of a permit based upon plans and specifications shall not prevent
the Building Official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in
said plans and specifications or from preventing building operations being
carried on thereunder when in violation of this chapter or of any other
ordinance of the City.



155.18  EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.



Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void, if the building
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 120 days after the
date of such permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period
of 120 days.  Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be
first obtained so to do, and the fee therefor shall be one-half the amount
required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made
or will be made in the original plans and specifications for such work; and
provided, further, such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year.



155.19  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.



The Building Official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued
under provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is issued in error or on
the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance
or regulation or any of the provisions of this chapter.



155.20  BUILDING PERMIT FEES.



A fee for each building permit shall be paid to the Building Official as set
forth herein.  The determination of value or valuation under any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be made by the Building Official.  The
valuation to be used in computing the permit and plan check fees shall be the
total value of all construction work for which the permit is issued, as well
as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, elevators, fire extinguishing systems and any other permanent
work or permanent equipment.  The Building Official will use as a guide to
determine the valuation the latest “Building Valuation Data,” and the
“Regional Modifiers,” as published by the International Code Council,
unless the applicant can show that the actual cost will be less.



1.   Building Permit Fee Schedule.



 



TOTAL VALUATION
 
FEE


$1.00 to $1,000.00
 
$22.00


$1,001.00 to $25,000.00
 
$22.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $6.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or
fraction thereof to and including $25,000.00.


$25,001.00 to $50,000.00
 
$172.00 for the first $25,000.00 plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or
fraction thereof to and including $50,000.00.


$50,001.00 to $100,000.00
 
$284.50 for the first $50,000.00 plus $3.13 for each additional $1,000.00 or
fraction thereof to and including $100,000.00.


$100,001.00 to $500,000.00
 
$441.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $2.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or
fraction thereof to and including $500,000.00.


$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00
 
$1,441.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $2.13 for each additional $1,000.00
or fraction thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00.


$1,000,001.00 and up
 
$2,506.00 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $1.38 for each additional
$1,000.00 or fraction thereof.




 



2.   Moving Buildings – Lot to Lot.  For a permit for the removal of a
building or structure from one lot to another, the fee shall be at the rate
of one dollar ($1.00) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of the estimated
value of the building or structure in its completed condition after removal,
with a minimum permit fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).



3.   Moving Buildings – Same Lot.  For a permit for the removal of a
building or structure to a new location within the same lot, the fee shall be
at the rate of ten cents ($.10) per thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of the
estimated cost of moving, of new foundations and of work necessary to put the
building or structure in usable condition in its new location, with a minimum
permit fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).



4.   Demolition.  For a permit for the demolition of a building or
structure, there shall be a fee of thirty-five dollars ($35.00).



155.21  MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES.



A fee for each mechanical permit shall be paid to the Building Official as
set forth herein.



1.   Permit Issuance.



   A.   For the issuance of each permit – $22.00



   B.   For issuing each supplemental permit – $3.25



2.   Unit Fee Schedule.



   A.   For the installation or relocation of each forced-air or
gravity-type furnace or burner, including ducts and vents attached to such
appliance, up to and including 100,000 Btu/h – $6.63.



   B.   For the installation or relocation of each forced-air or
gravity-type furnace or burner, including ducts and vents attached to such
appliance over 100,000 Btu/h – $8.13.



   C.   For the installation or relocation of each floor furnace,
including vent – $6.63.



   D.   For the installation or relocation of each suspended heater,
recessed wall heater or floor-mounted unit heater – $6.63.



   E.   For the installation, relocation or replacement of each
appliance vent installed and not included in an appliance permit – $3.25.



   F.   For the repair of, alteration of, or addition to each heating
appliance, refrigeration unit, cooling unit, absorption unit, or each
heating, cooling, absorption, or evaporative cooling system, including
installation of controls regulated by this chapter – $6.13.



   G.   For the installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor
to and including three horsepower, or each absorption system to and including
100,000 Btu/h – $6.63.



   H.   For the installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor
over three horsepower to and including 15 horsepower or each absorption
system over 100,000 Btu/h and including 500,000 Btu/h – $12.12.



   I.   For the installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor
over 15 horsepower to and including 30 horsepower, or each absorption system
over 500,000 Btu/h to and including 1,000,000 Btu/h – $16.63.



   J.   For the installation or relocation of each boiler or compressor
over 30 horsepower to and including 50 horsepower, or for each absorption
system over 1,000,000 Btu/h to and including 1,750,000 Btu/h – $24.75.



   K.   For the installation or relocation of each boiler or
refrigeration compressor over 50 horsepower, or each absorption system over
1,750,000 Btu/h – $41.38.



   L.   For each air handling unit to and including 10,000 cubic feet
per minute, including ducts attached thereto – $4.75.  Note: This fee
shall not apply to an air handling unit which is a portion of a factory
assembled appliance, cooling unit, evaporative cooler or absorption unit for
which a permit is required elsewhere in this chapter.



   M.   For each air handling unit over 10,000 cfm – $8.08.



   N.   For each evaporative cooler other than portable type – $4.75.



   O.   For each ventilation fan connected to a single duct – $3.25.



   P.   For each ventilation system which is not a portion of any
heating or air conditioning system authorized by a permit – $4.75.



   Q.   For the installation of each hood which is served by mechanical
exhaust, including the ducts for such hood – $4.75.



   R.   For the installation or relocation of each domestic type
incinerator – $8.13.



   S.   For the installation or relocation or each commercial or
industrial type incinerator – $33.25.



   T.   For each appliance or piece of equipment regulated by this
chapter but not classed in other appliance categories, or for which no other
fee is listed in this chapter – $4.25.



   U.   Permit fees for fuel gas piping shall be as follows:



      (1)   For each gas piping system of one to four outlets –
$2.75;



      (2)   For each gas piping system of five or more outlets –
$0.50 per outlet.



155.22  PLUMBING PERMIT FEES.



A fee for each plumbing permit shall be paid to the Building Official as set
forth herein.



1.   Permit Issuance.



   A.   For issuing each permit – $20.00.



   B.   For issuing each supplemental permit – $5.00.



2.   Unit Fee Schedule.



   A.   For each plumbing fixture or trap or set of fixtures on one
trap (including water, drainage piping and backflow protection therefor) –
$3.50.



   B.   For each building sewer and each trailer park sewer – $7.50.



   C.   Rainwater systems – per drain (inside building) – $3.50.



   D.   For each cesspool – $12.50.



   E.   For each private sewage disposal system – $20.00.



   F.   For each water heater and/or vent – $3.50.



   G.   For each gas piping system of one to four outlets – $2.50.



   H.   For each gas piping system of five or more, per outlet –
$0.50.



   I.   For each industrial waste pretreatment interceptor, including
its trap and vent, excepting kitchen type grease interceptors functioning as
fixture traps – $3.50.



   J.   For installation, alteration or repair of water piping and/or
water treating equipment – $3.50.



   K.   For repair or alteration of drainage or vent piping – $3.50.



   L.   For each lawn sprinkler system on any one meter, including
backflow protection devices therefor – $3.50.



   M.   For atmospheric-type vacuum breakers not included in paragraph
L:



      (1)   one to five – $2.50



      (2)   over five – $0.50 each



   N.   For each backflow protective device other than atmospheric type
vacuum breakers:



      (1)   two-inch diameter and smaller – $3.50



      (2)   over two-inch diameter – $7.50



   O.   For each gray-water system – $20.00.



155.23  ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES.



A fee for each electrical permit shall be paid to the Building Official as
set forth herein.



1.   Permit Issuance.



   A.   For issuing each permit – $22.00.



   B.   For issuing each supplemental permit – $4.50.



2.   System Fee Schedule.  (Note: The following do not include permit
issuing fee.)



   A.   New Residential Buildings.  The following fees shall include
all wiring and electrical equipment in or on each building, or other
electrical equipment on the same premises constructed at the same time.



      (1)   For new multi-family residential buildings (apartments
and condominiums) having three or more living units not including the area of
garages, carports and other noncommercial automobile storage areas
constructed at the same time, per square foot – $0.023.



      (2)   For new single- and two-family residential buildings not
including the area of garages, carports and other minor accessory buildings
constructed at the same time, per square foot – $0.026.



      (3)   For other types of residential occupancies and
alterations, additions and modifications to existing residential buildings,
use the Unit Fee Schedule in subsection 3 of this section.



   B.   Private Swimming Pools.



      (1)   For new private, residential, in-ground, swimming pools
for single-family and multi-family occupancies including a complete system of
necessary branch circuit wiring, bonding, grounding, underwater lighting,
water pumping and other similar electrical equipment directly related to the
operation of a swimming pool – $22.50 each.



      (2)   For other types of swimming pools, therapeutic
whirlpools, spas and alterations to existing swimming pools, use the Unit Fee
Schedule in subsection 3 of this section.



   C.   Carnivals and Circuses.  Carnivals, circuses, or other
traveling shows or exhibitions utilizing transportable type rides, booths,
displays and attractions.



      (1)   For electric generators and electrically driven rides
– $11.25 each.



      (2)   For mechanically driven rides and walk-through
attractions or displays having electric lighting – $3.38 each.



      (3)   For a system of area and booth lighting – $3.38 each.



      (4)   For permanently installed, rides, booths, displays and
attractions, use the Unit Fee Schedule in subsection 3 of this section.



   D.   Temporary Power Service.



      (1)   For a temporary service power pole or pedestal including
all pole or pedestal mounted receptacle outlets and appurtenances – $11.25
each.



      (2)   For a temporary distribution system and temporary
lighting and receptacle outlets for construction sites, decorative light,
Christmas tree sales lots, fireworks stands, etc. – $5.63 each.



3.   Unit Fee Schedule.  (Note: The following do not include permit
issuing fee.)



   A.   Receptacle, Switch and Lighting Outlets.  For receptacle,
switch, lighting or other outlets at which current is used or controlled,
except services, feeders and meters.



      (1)   First 20 – $0.56 each;



      (2)   Additional outlets – $0.34 each.



   Note:  For multi-outlet assemblies, each 5 feet or fraction thereof
may be considered as one outlet.



   B.   Lighting Fixtures.



      (1)   For lighting fixtures, sockets or other lamp holding
devices:



         First 20 – $0.56 each;



         Additional fixtures – $0.34 each.



      (2)   For pole or platform mounted lighting fixtures – $0.56
each;



      (3)   For theatrical type lighting fixtures or assemblies –
$0.56 each.



   C.   Residential Appliances.  For fixed residential appliances or
receptacle outlets for same, including wall mounted electric ovens; counter
mounted cooking tops; electric ranges, self-contained room, console, or
through-wall air conditioners; space heaters; food waste grinders;
dishwashers; washing machines; water heaters; clothes dryers; or other motor
operated appliances not exceeding one horsepower (HP) in rating – $2.25
each.  Note:  For other types of air conditioners and other motor driven
appliances having larger electrical ratings, see Power Apparatus, paragraph E.



   D.   Nonresidential Appliances.  For residential appliances and
self-contained factory wired, nonresidential appliances not exceeding one
horsepower (HP), kilowatt (KW), or kilovolt-ampere (KVA), in rating including
medical and dental devices; food, beverage, and ice cream cabinets;
illuminated show cases; drinking fountains; vending machines; laundry
machines; or other similar types of equipment – $2.25 each.  Note:  For
other types of air conditioners and other motor driven appliances having
larger electrical ratings, see Power Apparatus, paragraph E.



   E.   Power Apparatus.  For motors, generators, transformers,
rectifiers, synchronous converters, capacitors, industrial heating, air
conditioners, and heat pumps, cooking or baking equipment and other
apparatus, as follows:  [Ratings in horsepower (HP), kilowatts (KW),
kilovolt-amperes (KVA), or kilovolt-amperes-reactive (KVAR)]:



      (1)   Up to and including 1 – $2.25 each;



      (2)   Over 1 and not over 10 – $5.63 each;



      (3)   Over 10 and not over 50 – $11.25 each;



      (4)   Over 50 and not over 100 – $22.50 each;



      (5)   Over 100 – $33.75 each.



   Notes:  (i) For equipment or appliances having more than one motor,
transformer, heater, etc., the sum of the combined ratings may be used. 
(ii) These fees include all switches, circuit breakers, contractors,
thermostats, relays and other directly related control equipment.



   F.   Busways.  For trolley and plug-in type busways, each 100 feet
or fraction thereof – $3.28  Note:  An additional fee will be required
for lighting fixtures, motors and other appliances that are connected to
trolley and plug-in type busways.  No fee is required for portable tools.



   G.   Signs, Outline Lighting and Marquees.



      (1)   For signs, outline lighting systems or marquees supplied
from one branch circuit – $11.25 each;



      (2)   For additional branch circuits within the same sign,
outline lighting system or marquee – $2.25 each.



   H.   Services.



      (1)   For services of 600 volts or less and not over 200
amperes in rating – $13.88 each;



      (2)   For services of 600 volts or less and over 200 amperes
to 1000 amperes in rating – $28.13 each;



      (3)   For services over 600 volts or over 1000 amperes in
rating – $56.25 each.



   I.   Miscellaneous Apparatus, Conduits and Conductors.  For
electrical apparatus, conduits and conductors for which a permit is required
but for which no fee is herein set forth – $8.25.  Note:  This fee is not
applicable when a fee is paid for one or more services, outlets, fixtures,
appliances, power apparatus, busways, signs or other equipment.



155.24  PLAN CHECKING FEES.



When a plan check is required by the Building Official, the fees shall be
equal to the fee charged to the City by a consultant retained by the City to
perform such service.  The plan check may be waived, when required, if the
plans submitted are certified by an engineer or architect, registered
pursuant to the laws of the State, to be in compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[5])



155.25  EXPIRATION OF PLAN CHECK.



Applications for which no permit is issued within 180 days following the date
of application shall expire by limitation and plans submitted for checking
may thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed by the Building
Official.  The Building Official may extend the time for action by the
applicant for a period not exceeding 180 days upon written request by the
applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have
prevented action from being taken.  In order to renew action on an
application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a
new plan check fee.



155.26  REINSPECTION FEE.



In the event reinspection is necessary, there shall be paid to the Building
Official a reinspection fee in the following amounts:



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[5])



1.   Foundation Inspection – $25.00



2.   Frame Inspection – $25.00



3.   Final Inspection – $25.00



4.   Mechanical Work – $25.00



5.   Plumbing Work – $25.00



6.   Electrical Work – $25.00



155.27  OTHER INSPECTION FEES.



In the event that an inspection or review is requested and performed pursuant
to any of the following items, there shall be paid to the Building Official a
fee in the following amounts:



1.   Inspections outside of normal business hours (minimum charge of one
hour) – $25.00 per hour.



2.   Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated – $20.00 per
hour.



3.   Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions
to approved plans (minimum charge of one-half hour) – $20.00 per hour.



155.28  PENALTY FEE.



Where work for which a permit is required by this chapter is started or
commenced without obtaining a permit, the fees specified for such permit
shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any
persons from fully complying with the requirements of this chapter in the
execution of the work, nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[5])



155.29  INSPECTION REQUIRED.



All construction or work for which a permit is issued may be subject to
inspection by the Building Official, and certain types of construction may
have continuous inspection by special inspectors, as specified in Section
155.37.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[1])



155.30  LOT SURVEY.



A survey of the lot may be required by the Building Official to verify
compliance of the structure with approved plans.



155.31  CONCEALED WORK.



That portion of any work or equipment intended to be concealed by any
permanent portion of the building shall not be concealed until inspected and
approved.



155.32  INSPECTION RECORD CARD.



Work requiring a permit shall not be commenced until the permit holder or
agent shall have posted an inspection record card in a conspicuous place on
the front premises and in such position as to allow the Building Official
conveniently to make the required entries thereon regarding inspection of the
work.  This card shall be maintained in such position by the permit holder
until the certificate of occupancy or satisfactory completion has been issued.



155.33  APPROVALS REQUIRED.



No work may be done on any part of the building or structure beyond the point
indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the written
approval of the Building Official.  Such written approval may be given only
after an inspection has been made of each successive step in the construction
as indicated by each of the inspections required in Section 155.34.  There
may be a final inspection and approval on all buildings and work when ready
for occupancy and/or completed.



155.34  REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.



The Building Official, upon notification from the permit holder or agent, may
make the following applicable inspections and shall either approve that
portion of the work as completed or shall notify the permit holder or agent
wherein the same fails to comply with this chapter.



1.   Reinforcing Steel or Structural Framework.  Reinforcing steel or
structural framework of any part of any building or structure may not be
covered or concealed without first obtaining the approval of the Building
Official.



2.   Foundation Inspection.  To be made after trenches are excavated and
forms erected and when all materials for the foundation are delivered on the
job.  Where concrete from a central mixing plant (commonly termed “transit
mixed”) is to be used, materials need not be on the job.



3.   Frame Inspection.  To be made after the roof, all framing,
fire-blocking, and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys, and vents
are complete.



4.   Mechanical Inspection.  To be made before concealment or use.



5.   Plumbing Inspection.  To be made before concealment or use.



6.   Electrical Inspection.  To be made before concealment or use.



7.   Other Inspections.  In addition to the called inspections specified
above, the Building Official may make or require any other inspections of any
construction or work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and other laws which are enforced by the Building Official.



8.   Reinspections.  Reinspections, and fees therefor, may be required as
follows:



   A.   A reinspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or
reinspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not
complete or when corrections called for are not made.



   B.   This subsection is not to be interpreted as requiring
reinspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with
the requirements of this chapter, but as controlling the practice of calling
for inspections before the job is ready for such inspection or reinspection.



   C.   Reinspection fees may be assessed when the permit card is not
properly posted on the work site, the approved plans are not readily
available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for
which inspection is requested, or for deviating from plans requiring the
approval of the Building Official.



   D.   To obtain a reinspection the applicant shall file an
application therefor in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose, and
pay the reinspection fee in accordance with Section 155.26.



   E.   In instances where reinspection fees have been assessed no
additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees
have been paid.



9.   Final Inspection.  To be made after work is completed and/or the
building ready for occupancy.



155.35  MAINTENANCE.



All buildings or structures, both existing and new, and all parts thereof
shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition.  All devices or
safeguards which are required by this chapter in a building or structure when
erected, altered, or repaired, shall be maintained in good working order. 
The owner or designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings and structures.



155.36  SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.



In addition to the inspections to be made as specified in Section 155.34, the
owner or agent shall employ a special inspector who shall be present at all
times during construction on the following types of work:



1.   Concrete.  On concrete work when the structural design is based on
an in excess of 2,000 pounds.



2.   Masonry.  Masonry work shall have special inspection when required
in the State Building Code.



3.   Welding.  On all structural welding.



4.   Reinforced Gypsum Concrete.  When cast-in-place Class B reinforced
gypsum concrete is being mixed or deposited.



5.   Special Cases.  On special construction or work involving unusual
hazards or requiring constant inspection.



6.   Exception.  The Building Official may waive the requirement for the
employment of a special inspector if it is found that the construction or
work is such that no unusual hazard exists.



155.37  SPECIAL INSPECTOR.



The special inspector shall be a qualified person approved by the Building
Official.  The special inspector shall furnish continuous inspection on the
construction and work requiring the employment of the special inspector. 
The special inspector shall report to the Building Official in writing,
noting all ordinance violations and other information as required.



155.38  APPROVED FABRICATORS.



Special inspections required by Section 155.36 and elsewhere in this chapter
shall not be required where the work is done on the premises of a fabricator
approved by the Building Official to perform such work without special
inspection.  The certificate of approval shall be subject to revocation by
the Building Official if it is found that any work done pursuant to the
approval is in violation of this chapter.



155.39  REQUEST FOR INSPECTION.



The Building Official may require that every request for inspection be filed
at least one day before such inspection is desired.  Such request may be in
writing or by telephone at the option of the Building Official.



155.40  ACCESS.



It shall be the duty of the person requesting inspection to provide access to
and means for proper inspection.  The Building Official shall not be liable
for any expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material
required to allow the inspection.



155.41  POWER, FUEL AND WATER SUPPLY CONNECTIONS.



Systems and/or equipment regulated by this chapter shall not be connected to
the power, fuel or water supply until authorized by the Building Official,
except that this section shall not be considered to prohibit the operation of
any equipment installed to replace existing equipment serving an occupied
portion of a building in the event a request for inspection of such equipment
has been filed with the Building Official not more than twenty-eight (28)
hours after such replacement work is completed and before any portion of such
equipment is concealed by any permanent portion of the building.



155.42  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.



No building or structure where a certificate of occupancy is required by the
State Building Code Administration Section shall be used or occupied, and no
change in the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or
portion thereof shall be made until the Building Official has issued a
certificate of occupancy therefor as provided herein.



(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.19[4])



1.   Change in Use.  Changes in the character or use of a building shall
not be made except as specified in the State Building Code adopted by this
chapter. 



2.   Certificate Issued.  After final inspection when it is found that
the building or structure complies with the provisions of this chapter, the
Building Official may issue a certificate of occupancy which shall contain
the following:



   A.   The building permit number.



   B.   The address of the building. 



   C.   The name and address of the owner. 



   D.   A description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued.



   E.   A statement that the described portion of the building complies
with the requirements of this chapter for group and division of occupancy and
the use for which the proposed occupancy is classified. 



   F.   The name of the Building Official.



3.   Temporary Certificate.  A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the Building Official for the use of a portion or portions of a
building or structure prior to the completion of the entire building or
structure.



4.   Posting.  The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises and shall not be removed except by the
Building Official.



155.43  VIOLATIONS.



It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain
any building or structure in the City, or cause the same to be done, contrary
to or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.



155.44  PENALTY.



Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted.



CHAPTER 156
SIGN CODE



 



156.01  Title
 
156.15  Exemptions


156.02  Purpose
 
156.16  Obstructions to Doors, Windows or Fire Escapes


156.03  Definitions
 
156.17  Traffic Hazard


156.04  Erection
 
156.18  Goose Neck Reflectors


156.05  Permit Required
 
156.19  Spotlights and Floodlights Prohibited


156.06  Application for Sign Permit
 
156.20  Signs in the A-1 District


156.07  Permit Fees
 
156.21  Signs in the R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts


156.08  Temporary Permits
 
156.22  Signs in the R-4, R-5, and R-6 Districts


156.09  Maintenance
 
156.23  Signs in the B-1, B-2, I-1, and I-2 Districts


156.10  Inspections
 
156.24  Signs in the B-3 District


156.11  Unsafe and Unlawful Signs
 
156.25  Off-Premises Signs (Billboards)


156.12  Permit Revocation
 
156.26  Prohibited Signs


156.13  Wind Pressure and Dead Load Requirements
 
156.27  Board of Adjustment


156.14  Removal of Certain Signs
 
 




 



156.01  TITLE.



This chapter shall be known and be cited and referred to as the “Sign
Code.”



156.02  PURPOSE.



The purpose of this chapter is to establish the authority of the City with
regard to the type of construction of signs located within the City and for
sign regulations that are intended to facilitate an easy and agreeable
communication between people.  The regulations recognize the need to protect
the safety and welfare of the public, the need for well maintained and
attractive signs in the community, and the need for adequate public and
business identification, advertising, and communication.  These regulations
do not attempt to regulate design or copy content of any permitted sign. 
However, a great percentage of that which is unattractive can be eliminated
by sensible quality control, through adequate maintenance and inspection and
by reasonable guidelines formulated to minimize clutter.



156.03  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:



1.   “Billboard” means a sign that has a flat surface sign face upon
which advertising may be posted, painted, or affixed, and which is primarily
designed for the rental or lease of such sign space for advertising not
relating to the use of the property upon which the sign exists.



2.   “Board” means the Board of Adjustment of the City.



3.   “Commission” means the City Planning and Zoning Commission.



4.   “Sign” means any object or device, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct,
or attract attention to any object, person, institution, organization,
business product, service, event or location by any means including words,
letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, color, motion, illumination, or
projected images.  A sign includes any billboard, freestanding sign, ground
sign, wall sign, roof sign, illuminated sign, projecting sign, portable sign,
and temporary sign.  A sign does not include the following:  flags of
nations, states, and cities; merchandise pictures or models of products or
services incorporated with an inside window display; or works of art that in
no way identify a product or device.



5.   “Sign area” means that area determined by the Building Official
using actual dimensions where practicable, or approximate dimensions when
irregularity or sign shape warrants.  Such area includes the extreme points
or edges of the sign, excluding the supporting structure which does not form
part of the sign proper or of the display.  The area of a sign composed of
characters or words attached directly to a building or wall surface is the
smallest rectangle which encloses the whole group.



6.   “Sign, awning” means all signage including logos and graphic
designs on any awning.



7.   “Sign, building or wall” means any sign attached to or erected
against the wall of a building or structure, with the exposed face of the
sign in a plane parallel to the plane of said wall.



8.   “Sign, directory” means a sign containing the name of a building,
complex, or center and two or more identification signs of the same size,
color, and general design which identify the occupants thereof.



9.   “Sign face” means the surface of the sign upon, against, or
through which the message is displayed or illustrated on the sign.



10.   “Sign, freestanding” or “ground sign” means a sign which is
supported by one or more uprights or braces in or upon the ground and not
attached to any building or wall.



11.   “Sign, indirectly lighted” means a sign illuminated by
artificial light reflecting from the sign face, the light source not visible
from any street right-of-way.



12.   “Sign, institutional bulletin board” means an on-premises sign
containing a surface area upon which is displayed the name of a religious
institution, school, library, community center, or similar institution, and
the announcement of its services or activities.



13.   “Sign, off-premises” means a sign that is not an on-premises
sign.



14.   “Sign, on-premises” means a sign the primary purpose of which is
to identify and/or direct attention to a profession, business, service,
activity, product, campaign, or attraction manufactured, sold, or offered
upon the premises where such sign is located.



15.   “Sign, pole” means a sign wholly supported by a sign structure
in the ground.



16.   “Sign, portable” means a free standing sign not permanently
anchored or secured.



17.   “Sign, projecting” means a sign other than a wall sign, which
projects from and is supported by a wall of a building or structure.



18.   “Sign, roof” means a sign erected upon or above a roof or
parapet of a building or structure.



19.   “Sign, service” means a sign identifying rest rooms and other
service facilities.



20.   “Sign structure” means any structure which supports or is
capable of supporting any sign as defined in this chapter.  A sign structure
may be a single pole and may or may not be an integral part of the building.



21.   “Sign, temporary” means any sign, banner, pennant, valance, or
advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard,
wallboard, or other light materials, with or without frames, intended to be
displayed for a limited period of time only.



156.04  ERECTION.



All signs, awnings, and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street,
avenue or other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so
that there will be no danger of being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling
from any other cause.  No sign or canopy shall be erected or maintained
extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light or signal or to
obstruct the view of motor vehicles.



156.05  PERMIT REQUIRED.



It is unlawful for any person to erect, alter, or relocate within the City
any sign or other advertising structure as defined in this chapter, without
first obtaining a permit from the Building Official and making payment of the
fee required by this chapter.  All illuminated signs shall, in addition, be
subject to the provisions of the Electrical Code.



156.06  APPLICATION FOR SIGN PERMIT.



Application for sign permits shall be made upon blanks provided by the
Building Official and shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information:



1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.



2.   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.



3.   A site plan indicating the position of the sign or other advertising
structure in relation to the lot lines, the buildings on the lot, and nearby
buildings or structures.



4.   One blueprint or drawing of the plans and specifications and method
of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground.



5.   Name of person erecting the sign.



6.   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure, or land on
which the sign is to be erected.



7.   Such other information as the Building Official shall require to show
full compliance with this chapter and all other ordinances of the City.



156.07  PERMIT FEES.



No such sign shall be installed without first obtaining a permit from the
City and paying the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) as an inspection fee.



156.08  TEMPORARY PERMITS.



Signs which are intended to be displayed for a limited period of time only
shall require a temporary sign permit.  Application for temporary sign
permits shall be made upon the form, as set out in Section 156.06, and the
number of days for which the permit shall be effective shall be specified. 
However, the permit shall be valid for a period of time not to exceed thirty
(30) days.  No occupant shall be entitled to more than three (3) such
permits in any calendar year; provided further, no more than one such permit
shall be for a portable sign.  A fee of $5.00 shall be charged for said
permit, except for charitable and nonprofit organizations, which shall pay no
fee.  For the purposes of this chapter portable signs shall be considered to
be temporary signs.



156.09  MAINTENANCE.



All signs and sign support structures, together with all of their supports,
braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair and in proper state of
preservation.  The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly
painted or posted at all times.



156.10  INSPECTIONS.



All signs shall be subject .to inspection by the Building Official.  Footing
inspections may be required by the Building Official for all signs having
footings.  All signs containing electrical wiring shall be subject to the
provisions of the Electrical Code, and the electrical components used shall
bear the label of an approved testing agency.  The Building Official may
order the removal of any sign that is not maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Section 156.09.  All signs may be reinspected at the
discretion of the Building Official.



156.11  UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.



If the Building Official shall find that any sign or other advertising
structure regulated hereunder is unsafe or not securely fastened or is a
menace to the public, or has been constructed or erected or is being
maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Building
Official shall give written notice thereof to the permit holder.  Such
notice shall include a statement explaining the alleged violations and
deficiencies, an order to repair or remove said sign, and an explanation of
the consequences of failure to comply with said order.  If the permit holder
fails to remove or alter said sign so as to comply with the order within ten
days after such notice, said sign or other advertising structure may be
removed or altered to comply by the Building Official at the expense of the
permit holder or owner of the property on which it is located.  The permit
holder may appeal the order of the Building Official to the Council, and, if
such an appeal is on file, the ten-day compliance period shall be extended
until ten days following the Council’s decision on the matter.  If,
however, the Building Official finds that any sign or other advertising
structure poses a serious and immediate threat to the health or safety of any
person, the Building Official may order the removal of such sign summarily
and without notice to the permit holder.  Such an order may be appealed to
the Council, and if the Council reverses, it shall order restitution at the
City’s expense.



156.12  PERMIT REVOCATION.



Any permit holder who fails to comply with a valid order of the Building
Official within the allotted time period, or who fails to pay reasonable
removal or repair expenses assessed under the preceding section, shall have
the permit as to such sign or signs revoked, and another permit for the
erection or maintenance of such sign or signs shall not be issued to said
permit holder for a period of one year from the date of revocation.



156.13  WIND PRESSURE AND DEAD LOAD REQUIREMENTS.



All signs and other advertising structures shall be designed and constructed
to withstand a wind pressure of not less than twenty-five (25) pounds per
square foot of area and shall be constructed to receive dead loads as
required in the Building Code or other ordinances of the City.



156.14  REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS.



Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a bona fide
business conducted or a product sold, shall be taken down and removed by the
owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the building or
structure upon which such sign may be found within ten (10) days after
written notification from the Building Official, and, upon failure to comply
with such notice within the time specified in such order, the Building
Official is hereby authorized to cause removal of such signs, and any expense
incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the building or structure to
which such sign is attached.



156.15  EXEMPTIONS.



The provisions and regulations of this chapter shall not apply to the
following signs; provided, however, said signs shall be subject to the
provisions of Section 156.11:



1.   Real estate signs not exceeding six square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises or part of the premises
on which the signs are displayed.  Such signs shall be non-illuminated and
may not be located in or upon the street right-of-way.  When property
advertised for sale is five (5) acres or more in size, the sign advertising
sale may be up to 50 square feet in size providing it is not closer than 100
feet to any home.  Only one sign shall be allowed per subdivision and the
sign must be removed when unsold property totals less than five acres.



2.   Construction signs identifying the architects, engineers,
contractors, and other individuals involved in the construction of a building
or project, and such signs announcing the character of the building
enterprise or the purpose for which the building is intended but not
including product advertising.  One such non-illuminated sign not to exceed
60 square feet shall be permitted.  Such sign shall not extend higher than
12 feet above grade level or be closer than 20 feet to any property line
unless located on the wall of a building on the premises or on a protective
barricade surrounding the construction site.  Such signs shall be removed
within one week following completion of construction.



3.   Political campaign signs announcing candidates seeking public office
or pertinent political issues.  Such signs shall be confined to private
property and shall be removed within 48 hours following the election to which
they pertain.



4.   Street banners advertising a public event providing that specific
approval is granted under regulations established by the Council.



5.   Seasonal decorations pertaining to recognized national holidays and
national observances under regulations established by the Council.



6.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
noncombustible materials.



7.   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger, and such temporary, emergency, or non-advertising signs as may
be approved by the Police Chief and/or the Council.



8.   Signs which are accessory to the use of any kind of vehicle,
providing the sign is painted or attached directly to the body of the vehicle.



9.   Insignia, flags, and emblems of the United States, the State of Iowa,
and municipal and other bodies of established government, or flags which
display the recognized symbol of a nonprofit and/or non-commercial
organization.



10.   Signs which are displayed inside of a window or within a building,
provided however, that neon window signs shall be permitted only in B-1, B-2,
B-3, I-1, or 1-2 zoning districts.



11.   Public signs.  Signs of a non-commercial nature and in the public
interest, erected by or upon order of a public officer in the performance of
a public duty, such as safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs,
memorial plaques, signs of historical interest, and all other similar signs,
including signs designating hospitals, libraries, schools, parks, airports,
and other institutions or places of public interest or concern.



12.   Gasoline pump price signs which are affixed to a building or other
permanent sign standard.  However, any freestanding, ground, wall, or roof
sign advertising gasoline pump price shall be governed by the provisions of
this chapter.  Standard signs appearing as an integral part of gasoline
pumps shall be exempt.  Decals which constitute standard signs and which are
normally affixed after installation of gasoline pumps shall be exempt.  Any
such signs shall not be located in or over any street right-of-way.



156.16  OBSTRUCTIONS TO DOORS, WINDOWS OR FIRE ESCAPES.



No sign shall be erected, located, or maintained so as to prevent free
ingress to or egress from any door, window, or fire escape.  No sign of any
kind shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.



156.17  TRAFFIC HAZARD.



No sign or other advertising structure as regulated by this chapter shall be
erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to obstruct
free and clear vision or at any location where, by reason of the position,
shape, or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused
with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device, or which makes use of
the words, “STOP,” “LOOK,” “DRIVE-IN,” “DANGER,” or any other
word, phrase, symbol, or character in such a manner as to interfere with,
mislead, or confuse traffic.  No sign or other advertising structure as
regulated by this chapter shall have posts, guides, or supports located
within any street or alley.



156.18  GOOSE NECK REFLECTORS.



Goose neck reflectors and lights shall be permitted on freestanding or ground
signs, roof signs, and wall signs; provided, however, the reflectors shall be
provided with proper glass lenses concentrating the illumination upon the
area of the sign as to prevent glare upon the street or adjacent property.



156.19  SPOTLIGHTS AND FLOODLIGHTS PROHIBITED.



It is unlawful for any person to maintain any sign which extends over public
property which is wholly or partially illuminated by floodlights or
spotlights.



156.20  SIGNS IN THE A-1 DISTRICT.



1.   One on-premises sign upon which is displayed the name of a religious
institution, school, library, community center, or similar institution and
the announcement of its services or activities.  Such sign shall be either
non-illuminated or indirectly lighted with non-flashing white light, shall
have no more than two (2) sign faces, said sign faces to be parallel, and
shall not exceed 24 square feet per sign face.  The setback for said sign
shall be a minimum of 20 feet from all property lines.



2.   For permitted commercial uses wall signs which project no more than
12 inches from the building wall shall be permitted.



3.   For permitted commercial uses one freestanding sign shall be
allowed.  Said sign shall consist of no more than two (2) faces, said faces
to be parallel and not to exceed 50 square feet in area per sign face.  No
such sign shall be located closer than 20 feet to any property line.



156.21  SIGNS IN THE R-1, R-2, and R-3 DISTRICTS.



1.   One on-premises identification sign not to exceed one square foot in
area shall be permitted for each one-family dwelling.  In the case of
two-family dwellings, one such sign shall be allowed for each dwelling
unit.  Any such sign must be attached to the dwelling unit.



2.   One on-premises identification sign not to exceed one square foot in
area shall be permitted for each one-family dwelling if a home occupation is
conducted therein.  In the case of two-family dwellings, one such sign shall
be allowed for each dwelling unit.  Any such sign must be attached to the
dwelling unit.



3.   One on-premises sign upon which is displayed the name of religious
institution, school, library, community center, or similar institution and
the announcement of its services or activities.  Such sign shall be either
non-illuminated or indirectly lighted with non-flashing white light, shall
have not more than two (2) sign faces, said sign faces to be parallel, and
shall not exceed 24 square feet per sign face.  The setback for said sign
shall be a minimum of 20 feet from all property lines.



156.22  SIGNS IN THE R-4, R-5, and R-6 DISTRICTS.



1.   Signs permitted in and as limited in Section 156.21.



2.   One on-premises identification sign not to exceed 8 square feet in
area for each multiple dwelling complex containing 8 or more units, but less
than 16 units.  Any multiple dwelling complex containing 16 or more dwelling
units shall be permitted one on-premises identification sign not to exceed 24
square feet in area per sign face.  Signs permitted above may be located in
the required front yards, but may not be closer than 20 feet to any side or
rear property lines.



3.   For permitted commercial uses one on-premises freestanding sign shall
be allowed.  Said sign shall consist of no more than two (2) faces, said
faces to be parallel and not to exceed 50 square feet in area per sign
face.  The sign may not be located in or overhang any street right-of-way. 
The sign may be located in the required front yard, but may not be located
closer than 20 feet to any side or rear property lines.



4.   One on-premises identification sign not to exceed 24 square feet in
area per sign face may be erected in the R-6 zoning district for any mobile
home park which contains 10 or more mobile home lots.  The sign may not be
located in or overhang any street right-of-way and may not be located nearer
than 20 feet to any side or rear property line that abuts any residential
zoning district.



156.23  SIGNS IN THE B-1, B-2, I-1 and I-2 DISTRICTS.



1.   Signs permitted in and as limited in Section 156.22.



2.   One on-premises freestanding sign shall be allowed per building
lot.  If a lot frontage is 200 feet or less, one freestanding sign shall be
permitted per building frontage and shall consist of no more than two (2)
faces, said faces to be parallel, and not to exceed 100 square feet in area
per sign face.  If a lot frontage is greater than 200 feet, one freestanding
sign shall be permitted per building frontage and shall consist of no more
than two (2) faces, said faces to be parallel, and not to exceed 50 square
feet per foot of lot frontage, with a maximum of 300 square feet per sign
face.  In lieu of the foregoing, two freestanding signs may be permitted per
building provided that each such sign does not have a sign face area in
excess of 150 square feet.  If a lot has frontage onto more than one street,
one freestanding sign shall be permitted per street frontage.  The size of
said freestanding signs shall be governed by the amount of street frontage as
stated in this section.  However, if the secondary frontage is less than the
primary frontage, the maximum size of the sign on the secondary frontage
shall be reduced from 100 square feet to 50 square feet if the frontage is
100 feet or less, and to 25 square feet if the frontage is less than 50 feet.



3.   Supports for all freestanding signs shall be located on private
property and may not be located in public right-of-way.  Likewise, the sign
itself may not overhang public right-of-way, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.



4.   No portion of any permitted freestanding sign located within 20 feet
of the street line shall be less than 12 feet above grade level.  The Zoning
Administrator may permit the location of a ground sign or a freestanding sign
less than 12 feet above the ground surface within 20 feet of the street
right-of-way line, provided the size and location of said sign will not
obstruct or impair the visibility of pedestrians or motorists.



5.   Roof signs are permitted, but shall not be off-premises signs.  All
roof signs must adhere to the height limitations of the district in which it
is located.  The back of a roof sign shall be effectively shielded from
public view by a building wall, by backing the sign against another sign
face, or by painting the exposed back a neutral color.



6.   Wall signs are permitted and are not limited in number.  However,
the total square footage of the sign face area of the wall signs shall not be
greater than 15% of the wall area of each business.



7.   Freestanding entrance and exit signs are permitted in addition to any
other permitted signs within the district.  Such signs shall not be more
than four square feet in area per sign face.



8.   Electronically controlled public service, time, temperature, and date
signs, message centers, or reader boards, where different copy changes are
shown, are permitted.  However, such signs must comply with all requirements
of this section.



9.   Menu signs are permitted in addition to any other permitted signs
within the district.  However, such signs shall be located to the rear or to
the side of the principal building located on any lot.



156.24  SIGNS IN THE B-3 DISTRICT.



1.   Exterior signs for individual businesses shall not protrude more than
12 inches from building walls, roofs, or parapets.  This restriction shall
not in any way impair the use of standardized signs attached to common
sidewalk canopies or the use of freestanding directories, with individual
signs or signs identifying the entire business district in prominent display
places including public parking lots and public rights-of-way.



2.   Freestanding signs for individual businesses located either on
private property or on public right-of-way are not permitted.



3.   Wall signs shall not be limited in number; however, the total square
footage of the sign face area of the wall signs shall not be greater than 15%
of the wall area of each business.



4.   Electronically controlled public service, time, temperature, and date
signs, message centers, or reader boards, where different copy changes are
shown, are permitted.  However, such signs must comply with all requirements
of this chapter.



5.   Menu signs are permitted in addition to any other permitted signs
within the district.  However, such signs shall be located to the rear or to
the side of the principal building located on any lot.



156.25  OFF-PREMISES SIGNS (BILLBOARDS).



Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no off-premises sign
will be permitted unless all of the following conditions have been met:



1.   The location of said sign must be in a B-1, B-2, I-1, or 1-2 zoning
district.



2.   The location of said sign is not within 100 feet of an R-1, R-2, R-3,
R-4, or R-5 zoning district.



3.   Billboards located on the same street facing the same traffic flow
shall not be located closer together than 500 feet.  Double-faced signs
shall be considered as facing traffic flowing in the opposite direction.



4.   The height of said sign is within all height limitations of the
zoning district in which the sign is located.



5.   The size of said sign shall be limited to 300 square feet in area. 
Double-faced signs shall be permitted.  If a single-faced sign is erected,
the back shall be suitably painted or otherwise covered to present a neat and
clean appearance.



6.   Billboards attached to a building shall not project above the roof
line of the building or be located on the roof of a building.



7.   All billboard sign permits shall require a special use permit
approved by the Board of Adjustment.



156.26  PROHIBITED SIGNS.



Signs hereinafter designated shall be prohibited in all zoning districts.



1.   Obsolete signs.  Such signs that advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer conducted on the premises on which the sign is
located.  In the case of off-premises or billboard signs they shall be
declared obsolete if the activity, business, product, or service is no longer
being conducted at the location being advertised.



2.   Portable signs.  Such signs that are not permanently anchored or
secured to either a building or the ground except as may otherwise be
permitted by this chapter pursuant to a temporary permit. 



3.   Off-premises signs on public property.  Off-premises signs located
on public property which is being used for public purposes.



156.27  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.



The Board of Adjustment is hereby authorized and empowered, after a public
hearing thereon with a notice to the public, to grant exceptions or variances
to this chapter where it is found that such exception or variance is
necessary to prevent unreasonable hardship.  The provisions governing the
Board of Adjustment contained in the Zoning Ordinance shall be observed when
an exception or variance to this chapter is being considered.



CHAPTER 157
FIRE PREVENTION CODE



 

157.01  Fire Prevention Code Adopted
 
157.03  Definition


157.02  Enforcement
 
157.04  Establishment of Limits



 



157.01  FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.



There is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion the code and standards known as the International Fire Code, as
adopted by the State of Iowa.



157.02  ENFORCEMENT.



The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Fire Chief.



157.03  DEFINITION.



Whenever the word “jurisdiction” is used in the code hereby adopted, it
shall be held to mean the City of Carroll.



157.04  ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS.



Section 3404.2.9.6.1 of the International Fire Code is hereby adopted in
which permanent bulk storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above ground
tanks is prohibited in the geographic area established as follows:



An area bounded as follows:  south line of Fourth Street; east line of
Carroll Street; south line of Eighth Street; and west line of Clark Street.



CHAPTER 160
EMERGENCY REPAIRS OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS



 

160.01  Emergency Repair Zone
 
160.05  Special Assessments


160.02  Declaration of Emergency Repair Zone
 
160.06  Reimbursement for Costs


160.03  Notice
 
160.07  Supervision and Notification Required


160.04  City May Repair
 
160.08  Penalty



 



160.01  EMERGENCY REPAIR ZONE.



The Public Works Director or the City Manager or the City Council may
designate a particular portion of a public improvement of the City as an
“Emergency Repair Zone.”  This designation may be by written notice from
the Public Works Director or City Manager or resolution of the City
Council.  The term “Public Improvement” is intended to include streets,
sidewalks, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water systems, and any other
“public improvement” as that term is defined in Section 384.37 of the
Code of Iowa or as defined in Section 364.12 as a “public place.”



160.02  DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY REPAIR ZONE.



The declaration of the Emergency Repair Zone by the Public Works Director or
City Manager or City Council shall be based upon the judgment of the Public
Works Director, City Manager or City Council.  It is the intent of the City
that such emergency repair zones include but not be limited to:



1.   Situations involving undue risk of harm to members of the public;



2.   Rapidly deteriorating damage to public improvements that cannot await
the normal resolution of necessity repair process provided in Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa; or



3.   Such other emergencies as may threaten public or private property in
the City.



160.03  NOTICE.



Notice of the designation of such an emergency repair zone shall be given to
the adjacent property owners in the best possible manner under the
circumstances.  If the emergency is such that notice and hearing are
impossible, the City may proceed with the emergency repairs and shall
consider the impossibility or difficulty of giving advance notice in
assessing the costs.  Where possible, notice will be given in writing to
affected property owners who will have an opportunity for hearing before the
Council, before the City Manager, or before the Public Works Director, prior
to such emergency repairs.



160.04  CITY MAY REPAIR.



After the designation of an emergency repair zone, and after such notice and
hearing as may be possible under the circumstances, the City may proceed with
the emergency repair of the public improvement or public grounds.  In
undertaking the repair, the City may require the abutting property owners to
perform a reasonably related action such as a connection to public drainage
systems, public sewer systems, removal, repair or dismantling of a dangerous
building or structure, removal or abatement of a nuisance, or other actions
as set out in Section 364.12 of the Code of Iowa.



160.05  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.



If the nature of the emergency repair permits advance notice and hearing, and
if in the discretion of the Council the matter should be the subject of
special assessments for the cost of repair, the assessment cost may be paid
in up to ten (10) annual installments in the same manner and with the same
interest rates provided for assessments against benefitted property under
Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.  If a special assessment is so levied, it
will be a lien against the benefitted property from the date of filing the
schedule of assessments until the assessment is paid.  Such special
assessments shall have equal precedence with ordinary taxes and are not
divested by judicial sale.



160.06  REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS.



In addition to or in lieu of the special assessment, the City may seek
reimbursement for costs incurred for performing any act authorized by this
chapter by a civil action for damages against a property owner who fails to
comply with the specified actions as stated herein.  The City may also seek
equitable remedies including an order for injunction or abatement in the
event of noncompliance by abutting property owners.



160.07  SUPERVISION AND NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.



Abutting property owners who are required by the emergency repair zone
designation to take actions to repair structures, connect to City systems, or
abate dangerous or nuisance situations shall undertake such action under the
general supervision of the City.  No connection to a City system shall be
undertaken without notifying the City Public Works Director of the time,
date, and manner of such proposed connection, with such notice to be
sufficiently in advance to allow the Public Works Director to supervise such
connection, repair, or abatement.  Any such connections to City systems
shall be with acceptable quality of materials and workmanship.  Any
excavations must be marked with barricades and warning lights under the
supervision of the City Public Works Director.  Where applicable,
installations must comply with City and State building or plumbing codes. 
Should any such connection, abatement, or repair not be completed by the
abutting property owner within reasonable time, or any such excavation be
left open or partly open for more than a reasonable time, the City shall have
the right to finish or correct the work and the City shall assess the
property owner.



160.08  PENALTY.



In addition to or in lieu of the remedies available to the City under this
chapter, the City may charge a municipal infraction against any property
owner, whether a person or business, who would fail to comply with actions
required by this chapter.  For the first infraction, a civil penalty of
$50.00 will be assessed.  For the second infraction, a civil penalty of
$100.00 will be assessed.  For a third and any subsequent offense, a civil
penalty of $200.00 will be assessed.  Each day such infraction exists or
continues may be considered a separate infraction.



CHAPTER 161
COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS



 

161.01  Purpose and General Policy
 
161.08  Application Process


161.02  Definitions
 
161.09  Noise and Emission Standards


161.03  Local Regulation and Compliance with the Telecommunications Act of
1996
 
161.10  Placement of Facilities and Related Lease Fees


161.04  Lease Required
 
161.11  Abandonment


161.05  Fee Required
 
161.12  Termination


161.06  Limit on Term
 
161.13  Home Rule


161.07  Priorities and Placement Requirements
 
161.14  New Technologies



 



161.01  PURPOSE AND GENERAL POLICY.



The Council finds that in order to ensure public safety and provide efficient
delivery of services by the City and others wishing to utilize wireless
communication technologies, in order to protect public and private
investments, ensure the health, safety and welfare of the population, to
provide for the regulation and administration of the orderly location of
antenna arrays and towers and to secure the rights of the City to a return on
its investment on public property, it is necessary for the City to establish
uniform rules and policies.  This chapter is to be interpreted in light of
these findings for the benefit of the citizens of the City.



161.02  DEFINITIONS.



For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:



1.   “Antenna” means a device, dish or array used to transmit or
receive telecommunications signals.



2.   “Communications tower” means a tower, pole, or similar structure
which supports a telecommunications antenna operated for commercial purposes
above ground in a fixed location, free standing, guyed or on a building.



3.   “Height” of a communications tower is the distance from the base
of the tower to the top of the structure.



4.   “Telecommunications” means the transmission, between or among
points specified by the user, of information of the user’s choosing,
without change in the form or content of the information as sent and received.



161.03  LOCAL REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF
1996.



The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits the City from establishing
policies that discriminate against one or a group of providers in favor of
another or another group of providers or potential providers.  The following
objectives shall be applied consistently to all telecommunications providers
that request a location on City property for their communications towers and
antennas.



1.   To minimize the overall number of towers located in the City,
providers may be required to participate in collocation agreements.



2.   To ensure that new towers will be safe and blend into their
environment, providers will propose designs consistent with site
characteristics.



3.   To minimize placement of wireless equipment in highly populated
areas, residential locations will be considered as a last resort.



4.   To assure revenues from site leases of City-owned and City-controlled
land and structures reflects fair compensation for use of City property and
administration of this chapter.



161.04  LEASE REQUIRED.



No person or other entity shall use any public property without first
obtaining a lease from the City.



161.05  FEE REQUIRED.



No lease for the use of public property shall be granted without requiring
the lessee thereof to pay a reasonable and competitively neutral fee, as
provided herein, for the use of that public property.



161.06  LIMIT ON TERM.



No lease for the use of public property shall be granted for a term of more
than 25 years.



161.07  PRIORITIES AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.



1.   Priority.  Priority of the use of City-owned land for communications
antennas and towers will be given to the following entities in descending
order of priority:



   A.   All functions of the City.



   B.   Public safety agencies that are not a part of the City,
including law enforcement, fire and ambulance services, and private entities
with a public safety agreement with the City.



   C.   Other governmental agencies for uses which are not related to
public safety.



   D.   Entities providing licensed commercial communications services,
including cellular, personal communications services (PCS), specialized
mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging
and similar services that are marketed to the general public for business
and/or personal use.



2.   Placement.  The placement of communications antennas or towers on
City-owned property must comply with the following requirements:



   A.   The antenna or tower will not interfere with the purpose for
which the City-owned property is intended.



   B.   The antenna or tower will have no adverse impact on surrounding
private property.



   C.   The applicant will produce proof of adequate liability
insurance for potential damage antennas or towers could reasonably cause to
City property and facilities and commit to a lease agreement which includes
equitable compensation for the use of public land and other necessary
provisions and safeguards.  The fee shall be established by the Council
(Section 161.10) and shall reflect potential expenses and risks to the City
and other appropriate factors.



   D.   The applicant will submit a letter of credit, performance bond,
or other security acceptable to the City to cover the cost of antenna or
tower removal.



   E.   The antennas or towers will not interfere with other uses which
have a higher priority as discussed in the paragraphs above.



   F.   Upon reasonable notice, the antennas or towers may be required
to be removed at the user’s expense.



   G.   The applicant must reimburse the City for any costs which it
incurs because of the presence of the applicant’s antenna or tower.



   H.   The user must obtain all necessary land use approval.



   I.   The applicant will cooperate with the City’s objective to
promote collocations and thus limit the number of separate antenna sites
requested.



161.08  APPLICATION PROCESS.



1.   All applicants who wish to locate a communications antenna or tower
on City-owned or private property must submit to the City Manager a completed
application accompanied by a fee of $100.00 and the following documents, if
applicable:



   A.   One copy of typical specifications for proposed structures and
antennas, including description of design characteristics and material.



   B.   A site plan drawn to scale showing property lines, tower
location, tower height, guy wires and anchors, existing structures,
photographs or elevation drawings depicting typical design of proposed
structures, parking, fences, landscape plan, and existing land uses on
adjacent property.  A site plan is not required if the antenna is to be
mounted on an approved existing structure.



   C.   A current map or update for an existing map on file showing
locations of applicant’s antennas, facilities, existing towers and proposed
towers which are reflected in public records, serving any property within the
City.



   D.   A report from a structural engineer showing the tower antenna
capacity by type and number, and a certification that the tower is designed
to withstand winds in accordance with ANS/EIA/TIA 222, latest revision,
standards.



   E.   Identification of the owners of all antennas and equipment to
be located on the site.



   F.   Written authorization from the site owner for the application.



   G.   Evidence that a valid FCC license for the proposed activity has
been issued.



   H.   A line of sight analysis showing the potential visual and
aesthetic impacts on adjacent residential districts.



   I.   A written agreement to remove the tower and/or antenna within
180 days after cessation of use.



   J.   Additional information, as required, to determine that all
applicable zoning regulations are met.



   K.   Any communications facilities located on the roof of an antenna
support structure must be set back at least one foot from the edge of the
roof of the structure.  This setback requirement shall not apply to:  (i)
communications facilities located above the roof of the structure if the
facilities are appropriately screened from view through the use of panels,
walls, fences or other screening techniques approved by the City; or (ii)
camouflage antennas that are mounted to the exterior of the antenna support
structures below the roof, but do not protrude more than 24 inches from the
side of such an antenna support structure.



2.   Applicant must also show evidence that all of the following
conditions which are applicable are met:



   A.   Applicant must show that the proposed communications tower,
antenna or accessory structure will be placed in a reasonably available
location that will minimize the visual impact on the surrounding area and
allow the facility to function in accordance with minimum standards imposed
by applicable communications regulations and applicant’s technical design
requirements.



   B.   Applicant must show that a proposed antenna and equipment
cannot be accommodated and function as required by applicable regulations and
applicant’s technical design requirement without unreasonable modifications
on any existing structure or tower under the control of the applicant.



   C.   Applicant for a permit in a residential district must show that
the area cannot be adequately served by a facility placed in a nonresidential
district for valid technical reasons.



   D.   Prior to consideration of a permit for location on private
property which must be acquired, applicant must show that available publicly
owned sites, and available privately owned sites occupied by a compatible
use, are unsuitable for operation of the facility under applicable
communications regulations and applicant’s technical design requirements.



   E.   Applicant must provide the names, addresses and telephone
numbers of all owners of other towers or useable antenna support structures
within a one-half mile radius of the proposed new tower site, including
City-owned property, and written documentation that the applicant:  (i) made
diligent but unsuccessful efforts for a minimum of 40 days prior to the
submission of the application to install or collocate the applicant’s
telecommunications facilities on towers or useable antenna support structures
owned by the City and other persons located within a one-half mile radius of
the proposed tower site; or (ii) written technical evidence from an engineer
that the proposed tower or facilities cannot be installed or collocated on
another person’s tower or support structure within a one-half mile radius
of the proposed tower and must be located at the proposed site in order to
meet the coverage requirements of the applicant’s wireless communications
system.



   F.   Applicants must show that a new tower is designed to
accommodate additional antenna equal in number to applicant’s present and
future requirements.



   G.   Applicant must show that all applicable health, nuisance,
noise, fire, building and safety code requirements are met.



   H.   All towers and communications facilities shall be of camouflage
design standards.  Examples of camouflage facilities include, but are not
limited to, architecturally screened roof, roof-mounted antennas, antennas
integrated into architectural elements, telecommunications towers designed to
blend into the surrounding environment or to look other than a tower, such as
light poles, power poles and trees.  At a minimum, all towers not requiring
FAA painting or markings shall have an exterior finish which is galvanized or
painted dull blue, gray or black.



   I.   Applicant must show by certificate from a registered engineer
that the proposed facility will contain only equipment meeting FCC rules, and
must file with the Clerk a written indemnification of the municipality and
proof of liability insurance or financial ability to respond to claims up to
$1,000,000.00 in the aggregate which may arise from operation of the facility
during its life, at no cost to the municipality, in form approved by the City
Attorney.



   J.   Land use regulations, visibility, fencing, screening,
landscaping, parking, access, lot size, exterior illumination, sign, storage,
and all other general zoning district regulations, except setback and height,
shall apply to the use.  The following height conditions apply:



      (1)   Residential Districts.  Freestanding tower with height
not exceeding 85 feet is a permitted conditional use; height exceeding 85
feet requires special exception.



      (2)   Commercial or Business Districts.  Freestanding or
guyed tower with height not exceeding 150 feet is a permitted conditional
use; height exceeding 150 feet requires special exception.



      (3)   Industrial Districts.  Freestanding or guyed tower with
height not exceeding 360 feet is a permitted conditional use; height
exceeding 360 feet requires special exception.



      (4)   Agricultural Districts.  Freestanding or guyed tower
with height not exceeding 500 feet is a permitted conditional use; height
exceeding 500 feet requires special exception.



In Residential, Commercial, Business and Industrial Districts, setback on all
sides shall be a distance equal to the height of the tower.  In Agricultural
Districts, setback on all sides shall be the distance equal to the
collapse/fall distance or one-half of the tower’s height, whichever is
greater.  Engineer-certified collapse/fall distance documentation shall be
submitted with the application.  If no engineer-certified documentation is
provided, the minimum setback shall be equal to the height of the tower.



   K.   A tower must be a minimum distance equal to one and one-half
the height of the tower from property designated historic or architecturally
significant, and must be set back from all lot lines distances equal to the
district maximum setback requirements or the tower height, whichever is
greater.



All responses to applications for siting of telecommunications towers and
facilities shall be in writing and shall be made within 30 days after all
application materials are received.



161.09  NOISE AND EMISSION STANDARDS.



1.   Noise.  No equipment shall be operated at towers and
telecommunications facilities so as to produce noise in excess of applicable
noise standards under WAC 173-60, except during emergencies or periodic
routine maintenance which requires the use of a back-up generator, where the
noise standards may be exceeded temporarily.



2.   Emissions.  The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 gives the FCC
sole jurisdiction to regulate radio frequency emissions.  Facilities that
meet the FCC standards shall not be conditioned or denied on the basis of
emissions impacts.  Applicants for tower sites shall be required to provide
information on the projected power density of the facility and how this meets
the FCC standards.



161.10  PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES AND RELATED LEASE FEES.



The placement and maintenance of communications antennas or towers on
City-owned sites, such as water towers and parks, will be allowed when the
following additional requirements are met.



1.   Water Tower or Reservoir Sites.  The City’s water towers represent
a large public investment in water pressure stabilization and peak capacity
reserves.  Therefore, their protection is of prime importance.  As access
to the City’s water storage system increases, so does the potential for
contamination of the public water supply.  For these reasons, the placement
of communications towers or antennas on water towers sites will be allowed
only when the following requirements are met:



   A.   The applicant must have written approval from the Public Works
Director each time access to the facility is desired.  This will minimize
the risk of contamination to the water supply.



   B.   There is sufficient room on the structure and/or the grounds to
accommodate the applicant’s facility.



   C.   The presence of the facility will not increase the water tower
maintenance cost to the City.



   D.   The presence of the facility will not be harmful to the health
or safety of the workers maintaining the water tower.



The following fees will be assessed for placing facilities on a City water
tower:  $500.00 initial installation and $1,000.00 per month thereafter.



2.   Parks.  The presence of certain communications antennas or towers
represents a potential conflict with the purpose of certain City-owned parks
and recreational facilities.  Towers shall be prohibited in designated
conservation areas.  Communications antennas or towers will be considered
only in the following parks after the recommendation of the Parks and
Recreation Director and approval of the Council.



   A.   Public parks of a sufficient scale and character that are
adjacent to an existing commercial or industrial use.



   B.   Commercial recreational areas and major ball fields.



   C.   Park maintenance facilities.



Fees for placing facilities on park property:  $1,000.00 initial
installation and $2,000.00 per month thereafter.



161.11  ABANDONMENT.



In the event the use of any communications tower has been discontinued for a
period of 180 consecutive days, the tower shall be deemed to be abandoned. 
Determination of the date of abandonment shall be made by the City Manager
who shall have the right to request documentation and/or affidavits from the
communications tower owner/operator regarding the issue of tower usage. 
Upon such abandonment, the owner/operator of the tower shall have an
additional 180 days within which to:  (i) reactivate the use of the tower or
transfer the tower to another owner/operator who makes actual use of the
tower; or (ii) dismantle and remove the tower.  At the earliest, 181 days
from the date of abandonment, without reactivating or upon completion of
dismantling and removal, any special exception and/or variance approval for
the tower shall automatically expire.



161.12  TERMINATION.



The Council may terminate any lease if it is determined that any one of the
following conditions exist.



1.   A potential user with a higher priority cannot find another adequate
location and the potential use would be incompatible with the existing use.



2.   A user’s frequency broadcast unreasonably interferes with other
users of higher priority, regardless of whether or not this interference was
adequately predicted in the technical analysis.



3.   A user violates any of the standards in this chapter or the
conditions attached to the City’s lease agreement.



Before taking action, the City will provide notice to the user of the
intended termination and the reasons for it, and provide an opportunity for a
hearing before the Council regarding the proposed action.  This procedure
need not be followed in emergency situations.



161.13  HOME RULE.



This chapter is intended to be and shall be construed as consistent with the
reservation of local authority contained in the 25th Amendment to the Iowa
Constitution granting cities Home Rule powers.  To such end, any limitation
on the power of the City contained herein is to be strictly construed and the
City reserves to itself the right to exercise all power and authority to
regulate and control its local affairs and all ordinances and regulations of
the City shall be enforced against the holders of any lease.



161.14  NEW TECHNOLOGIES.



Should, within the term of any lease, developments within the field for which
the grant was made to the holder of the lease present the opportunity to the
holder of the lease to be more effective, efficient and economical through
the use of a substance or material other than those for which the lease was
originally made, the holder of the lease may petition the Council which, with
such requirements or limitations as it deems necessary to protect public
health, safety and welfare, may allow the use of such substance or material
under the terms and conditions of the lease.



CHAPTER 165
FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS



 



165.01  Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact, and Purpose
 
165.11  Flood Plain Development Permit Required


165.02  Definitions
 
165.12  Application for Permit


165.03  Lands to Which Chapter Applies
 
165.13  Action on Application


165.04  Compliance
 
165.14  Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans


165.05  Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
 
165.15  Variances


165.06  Interpretation
 
165.16  Factors Upon Which the Decision to Grant Variances Shall be Based


165.07  Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
 
165.17  Conditions Attached to Variances


165.08  General Flood Plain Management Standards
 
165.18  Nonconforming Uses


165.09  Special Floodway Standards
 
165.19  Amendments


165.10  Administration
 
165.20  Penalties for Violation




 



165.01  STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.



1.   Statutory Authority.  The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in
Chapter 364, Code of Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to
exercise any power and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect
and preserve the rights, privileges and property of the City or of its
residents, and to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare,
comfort and convenience of its residents.



2.   Findings of Fact.



   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the
tax base all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the community.



   B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are
caused by: (i) The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
flood damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being
inadequately elevated or otherwise protected from flooding and (ii) the
cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in
flood heights and velocities.



3.   Purpose.  It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and preserve
the rights, privileges and property of the City and its residents and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Section 165.01(2)(A) of this chapter with provisions designed to:



   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety
or property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities.



   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the
time of initial construction or substantial improvement.



   C.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited
for intended purposes because of flood hazard.



   D.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in
the community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood
Insurance Program.



165.02  DEFINITIONS.



Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.



1.   "Appurtenant Structure" means a structure which is on the same parcel
of property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.



2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.  (See 100-year flood.)



3.   "Base Flood Elevation" means the elevation floodwaters would reach at
a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.



4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its
floor or lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides.  (Also see
“lowest floor.”)



5.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved
real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling
operations.



6.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the
“start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map.  (May also be referred to as
“existing structure.”) 



7.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a
factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) was completed before the effective date of these flood plain
management regulations.



8.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision”
means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).



9.   “Factory-built home” means any structure designed for residential
use which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or
assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and
installation on a building site.  For the purpose of this chapter,
“factory-built home” includes mobile homes, manufactured homes, and
modular homes and also includes “recreational vehicles” which are placed
on a site for greater than 180 consecutive days and not fully licensed for
and ready for highway use.



10.   “Factory-built home park” means a parcel or contiguous parcels
of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.



11.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of
streams or rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from
any source. 



12.   “Flood elevation” means the elevation floodwaters would reach at
a particular site during the occurrence of a specific flood.  For instance,
the 100-year flood elevation is the elevation of floodwaters related to the
occurrence of the 100-year flood.



13.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)” means the official map
prepared as part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study
which delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community. 



14.   "Flood Insurance Study" means an examination, evaluation and
determination of flood hazards and corresponding water surface elevations.



15.   “Flood plain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water as a result of a flood.



16.   “Flood plain management” means an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use
of flood plains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
flood control works, flood proofing, and flood plain management regulations. 



17.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and
nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including
utility and sanitary facilities which will reduce or eliminate flood damage
to such structures. 



18.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those
portions of the flood plains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably
required to carry and discharge floodwaters or flood flows so that
confinement of flood flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.



19.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the flood plain, other
than the floodway, which can be filled, leveed, or otherwise obstructed
without causing substantially higher flood levels or flow velocities.



20.   "Highest Adjacent Grade" means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a
structure.



21.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:



   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic
Places, maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing in the National Register;



   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;



   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or



   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:  (i) an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.



22.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when all the following criteria are met:



   A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during floods with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
Section 165.08(4)(A); and



   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, dry-walled,
etc.) and used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access,
parking or storage; and



   C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater,
furnace, electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at
least one foot above the 100-year flood level; and



   D.   The enclosed area is not a “basement” as defined in this
section.



In cases where the lowest enclosed area satisfies criteria A, B, C, and D
above, the lowest floor is the floor of the next highest enclosed area that
does not satisfy the criteria above.



23.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading and excavating) valued at less than $500.



24.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks)
means those structures or development for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map.



25.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a
factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of these flood
plain management regulations.



26.   “100-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a one
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on
the average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 100 years. 



27.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:



   A.   Built on a single chassis;



   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the
largest horizontal projection;



   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and



   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.



28.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that
do not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a
general improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure.  Such
repairs include:



   A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding;



   B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work;



   C.   Basement sealing;



   D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;



   E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.



29.   “Special flood hazard area” means the land within a community
subject to the “100-year flood.”  This land is identified as Zone A, AE,
A1-A30, AO, and AH on the City’s Flood Insurance Rate Map.



30.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and
means the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start
of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement,
or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.  The actual
start means either the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation
of pile, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. 
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the building.



31.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground
or attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, and other
similar uses.



32.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.  Substantial damage also means
flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions
during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of such
flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value
of the structure before the damage occurred.



33.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure
which satisfies either of the following criteria:



   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the
structure either:  (i) before the “start of construction” of the
improvement, or (ii) if the structure has been “substantially damaged”
and is being restored, before the damage occurred.  The term does not,
however, include any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe conditions for the existing use.  The
term also does not include any alteration of an “historic structure,”
provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s designation as an
“historic structure.”



   B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a
building by 25 percent or more.  All additions constructed after the
effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall be added to any proposed
addition in determining whether the total increase in original floor space
would exceed 25 percent.



34.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms
of the flood plain management regulations.



35.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other
development to be fully compliant with this chapter.



(Ord. 1706 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



165.03  LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.



The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands and uses which have
significant flood hazards.  The Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) for Carroll
County and Incorporated Areas, City of Carroll, Panels 19027C0134C, 0142C,
0151C, 0153C, 0161C, 0162C, dated September 15, 2017, which were prepared as
part of the Carroll County Flood Insurance Study, shall be used to identify
such flood hazard areas and all areas shown thereon to be within the
boundaries of the 100-year flood shall be considered as having significant
flood hazards. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the precise location
of the 100-year flood boundary, the location shall be determined on the basis
of the 100-year flood elevation at the particular site in question.  The
Flood Insurance Study is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part of
this chapter for the purpose of administering flood plain management
regulations.



(Ord. 1706 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



165.04  COMPLIANCE.



No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply
to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.



165.05  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.



It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.  However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail.  Any ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed
to the extent of the inconsistency only.



165.06  INTERPRETATION.



In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in favor
of the Council and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other
powers granted by State statutes.



165.07  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.



The standards required by this chapter are considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes.  This chapter does not imply that areas outside the
designated areas of significant flood hazard will be free from flooding or
flood damages.  This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
City or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.



165.08  GENERAL FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.



All uses must be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and shall
meet the following applicable performance standards.  Where 100-year flood
data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Department of
Natural Resources shall be contacted to determine:  (i) whether the land
involved is either wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe;
and (ii) the 100-year flood level.  The applicant will be responsible for
providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical
information to make such determination.



1.   All Development.  All development within the areas of significant
flood hazard shall: 



   A.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.



   B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.



   C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.



   D.   Obtain all other necessary permits from Federal, State and
local governmental agencies including approval when required from the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources.



2.   Residential Buildings.  All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level.  Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
foot above the 100-year flood level and extend at such elevation at least 18
feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon.  Alternate methods
of elevating (such as piers) may be allowed, subject to favorable
consideration by the City Council, where existing topography, street grades,
or other factors preclude elevating by fill.  In such cases, the methods
used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the
various forces and hazards associated with flooding.  All new residential
structures shall be provided with a means of access which will be passable by
wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.



3.   Nonresidential Buildings.  All new or substantially improved
nonresidential buildings shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood-proofed to such a
level.  When flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered
in the State shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate
to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift
forces and other factors associated with the 100-year flood; and that the
structure, below the 100-year flood level, is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.  A record of the
certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to National
Geodetic Vertical Datum) to which any structures are flood-proofed shall be
maintained by the Administrator.



4.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.



   A.   Fully enclosed areas below the “lowest floor” (not
including basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters.  Designs for meeting this requirement
must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:



      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.



      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one
foot above grade.



      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves,
or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters.



Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, and
low damage potential storage.



   B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.



   C.   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.



5.   Factory-Built Homes.



   A.   All factory-built homes, including those placed in existing
factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one
foot above the 100-year flood level.



   B.   All factory-built homes, including those placed in existing
factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.  Methods of anchoring may include,
but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.



6.   Utility and Sanitary Systems. 



   A.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be
located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from
the system during flooding.



   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into floodwaters.  Wastewater treatment
facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of
flood protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood
elevation.



   C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.  Water
supply treatment facilities other than on-site systems shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year
flood elevation. 



   D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the
risk associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems. 



7.   Flammable or Explosive Materials.  Storage of equipment and
materials that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level.  Other material and equipment must either be similarly
elevated or:  (i) not subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent
movement due to floodwaters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within
the time available after flood warning. 



8.   Levees and Floodwalls.  Flood control structural works such as
levees, floodwalls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a
100-year flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall
provide for adequate interior drainage.  In addition, structural flood
control works shall be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.



9.   Watercourse Alterations.  Watercourse alterations or relocations
must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered
or relocated portion.  In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.



10.   Subdivisions.  Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. 
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter.  Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide
all lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles
during the 100-year flood.  Proposals for subdivisions greater than five
acres or 50 lots (whichever is less) shall include 100-year flood elevation
data for those areas located within the area of significant flood hazard.



11.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.



   A.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied.



      (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.  Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet.  Those portions of
the structure located less than 1 foot above the BFE must be constructed of
flood-resistant materials.



      (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage.  The
structure shall not be used for human habitation.



      (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.



      (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.



      (5)   The structure's service facilities such as electrical
and heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot
above the base flood elevation.



      (6)   The structure's walls shall include openings that
satisfy the provisions of Section 165.08 (4) A of this Ordinance.



   B.   Exemption from the 100-year flood elevation requirements for
such a structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
coverage of the structure and its contents.



(Ord. 1706 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



12.   Recreational Vehicles.



   A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of
Section 165.08(5) of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of
factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied.



      (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site
for less than 180 consecutive days, and



      (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and
ready for highway use.  A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently
attached additions.



   B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more
than 180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy
requirements of Section 165.08(5) of this chapter regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes.



13.   Pipelines.  Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried in
the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.



165.09  SPECIAL FLOODWAY STANDARDS.



In addition to the general flood plain standards, uses within the floodway
must meet the following applicable standards.  The floodway is that portion
of the flood plain which must be protected from developmental encroachment to
allow the free flow of floodwaters.  Where floodway data has been provided
in the flood insurance study, such data shall be used to define the
floodway.  Where no floodway data has been provided, the Department of
Natural Resources shall be contacted to provide a floodway delineation.  The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural
Resources with sufficient technical information to make such determination.



1.   No use shall be permitted in the floodway that would result in any
increase in the 100-year flood level.  Consideration of the effects of any
development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption that an equal
degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated lands.



2.   All uses within the floodway shall:



   A.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.



   B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.



   C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.



3.   No use shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the channel or
floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch or any other
drainage facility or system.



4.   Structures, buildings, and sanitary and utility systems, if
permitted, shall meet the applicable general flood plain standards and shall
be constructed or aligned to present the minimum possible resistance to flood
flows.



5.   Buildings, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential and
shall not be for human habitation.



6.   Storage of equipment or materials that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. 
Storage of other material may be allowed if readily removable from the
floodway within the time available after flood warning.



7.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion.  In addition, such alterations or
relocations must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.



8.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.



9.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to
channel degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.



165.10  ADMINISTRATION.



The Public Works Director shall implement and administer the provisions of
this chapter and will herein be referred to as the Administrator.  Duties
and responsibilities of the Administrator include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:



1.   Review all flood plain development permit applications to assure that
the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied. 



2.   Review all flood plain development permit applications to assure that
all necessary permits have been obtained from Federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for flood plain construction.



3.   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to
National Geodetic Vertical Datum) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures.



4.   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to
National Geodetic Vertical Datum) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been flood-proofed.



5.   Notify adjacent communities and/or counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.



6.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions and
correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.



165.11  FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.



A flood plain development permit issued by the Administrator shall be secured
prior to any flood plain development (any manmade change to improved and
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other
structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations) including the placement of factory-built homes.



165.12  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.



Application for a flood plain development permit shall be made on forms
supplied by the Administrator and shall include the following information:



1.   Work To Be Done.  Description of the work to be covered by the
permit for which application is to be made. 



2.   Location.  Description of the land on which the proposed work is to
be done (i.e., lot, block, tract, street address or similar description) that
will readily identify and locate the work to be done. 



3.   Use or Occupancy.  Indication of the use or occupancy for which the
proposed work is intended. 



4.   Flood Elevation.  Elevation of the 100-year flood. 



5.   Floor Elevation.  Elevation (in relation to National Geodetic
Vertical Datum) of the lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of
the level to which a building is to be flood-proofed. 



6.   Cost of Improvement.  For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the
estimated cost of improvements and market value of the building prior to the
improvements.



7.   Other.  Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter. 



165.13  ACTION ON APPLICATION.



The Administrator shall, within a reasonable time, make a determination as to
whether the proposed flood plain development meets the applicable standards
of this chapter and shall approve or disapprove the application.  For
disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the specific
reasons therefor.  The Administrator shall not issue permits for variances
except as directed by the Council.



165.14  CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATION AND PLANS.



Flood plain development permits, issued on the basis of approved plans and
applications, authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth
in such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction.  Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.  The applicant shall
be required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land
surveyor, as appropriate, registered in the State, that the finished fill,
building floor elevations, flood proofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.



165.15  VARIANCES.



The Council may authorize upon request in specific cases such variances from
the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the public interest,
where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship.  Variances granted must
meet the following applicable standards:



1.   Cause.  Variances shall only be granted upon:  (i) a showing of
good and sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a
determination that the granting of the variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing local codes or ordinances. 



2.   Prohibited.  Variances shall not be issued within any designated
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the 100-year flood would
result.  Consideration of the effects of any development on flood levels
shall be based upon the assumption that an equal degree of development would
be allowed for similarly situated lands.



3.   Required To Afford Relief.  Variances shall only be granted upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the
flood hazard, to afford relief. 



4.   Notice to Applicant.  In cases where the variance involves a lower
level of flood protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by
this chapter, the applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature
of the Administrator that:  (i) the issuance of a variance will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00
for $100.00 of insurance coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks
to life and property. 



5.   Approval.  All variances granted shall have the concurrence or
approval of the Department of Natural Resources.



165.16  FACTORS UPON WHICH THE DECISION TO GRANT VARIANCES SHALL BE BASED.



In passing upon applications for variances, the Council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:



1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.



2.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or downstream
to the injury of others. 



3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.



4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.



5.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the City.



6.   The requirements of the facility for a flood plain location. 



7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use. 



8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.



9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for the area. 



10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.



11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwater expected at the site. 



12.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.



13.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter. 



165.17  CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO VARIANCES.



Upon consideration of the factors listed in Section 165.16, the Council may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purpose of this chapter.  Such conditions may include, but not
necessarily be limited to: 



1.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.



2.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.



3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions. 



4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purposes of this chapter. 



5.   Flood proofing measures.



165.18  NONCONFORMING USES.



1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to
the following conditions: 



   A.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.



   B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not
be entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.



2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
unless it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.  This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to
comply with existing State or local health, sanitary, building or safety
codes or regulations or the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on
the National Register of Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall
not preclude its continued designation.



165.19  AMENDMENTS.



The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed.  No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval from the
Department of Natural Resources.



165.20  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.



Violations of the provisions of this Ordinance or failure to comply with any
of the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates
this Ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined not more than Five Hundred dollars ($500.00) or
imprisoned for not more than Thirty (30) days.  Nothing herein contained
prevent the City of Carroll from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy violation.



(Ord. 1706 - Sep. 17 Supp.)



CHAPTER 170
ZONING REGULATIONS



 



170.01  Title
 
170.20  R-7 One & Two Family Residential District


170.02  Purpose
 
170.21  RB-1 Residential-Business Transitional District


170.03  Definitions
 
170.22  R-8 Residential-Agricultural Transitional District


170.04  Districts Established
 
170.23  P.U.D. Planned Unit Development District


170.05  Classification of Newly Annexed Territory
 
170.24  B-1 Light Business District


170.06  Zoning Map
 
170.25  B-2 General Business District


170.07  Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries
 
170.26  B-3 Central Business District


170.08  Application of District Regulations
 
170.27  I-1 Light Industrial District


170.09  Home Occupations
 
170.28  I-2 General Industrial District


170.10  Non-Conforming Use of Land, Non-Conforming Structures &
Non-Conforming Uses of Structures
 
170.29  F-1 Flood Plain District


170.11  A-1 Agricultural District
 
170.30  Wind Energy Conversion Systems


170.12  A-2 Agricultural District
 
170.31  Solar Energy Standards


170.13  R-1 Low-Density Residential District
 
170.32  Height Regulations


170.14  R-2 Low-Density Residential District
 
170.33  Special Provisions


170.15  A-P Agricultural Preservation Overlay District
 
170.34  Off-Street Parking & Loading Requirements


170.16  R-3 Low-Density Residential District
 
170.35  Board of Adjustment


170.17  R-4 Medium-Density Residential District
 
170.36  Special Use Permits


170.18  R-5 High-Density Residential District
 
170.37  Amendments


170.19  R-6 Mobile Home Parks
 
170.38  Interpretation, Enforcement and Penalty of Ordinance




 



170.01   TITLE. 



This Ordinance shall be known and be cited and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance” to the same effect as if the full title were stated.



170.02   PURPOSE. 



In accordance with authority granted to the City by Chapter 414, Iowa Code
(2015) and amendments thereto, the City has established this Ordinance for
the promotion of the health, safety and general welfare of the community, in
accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.  It is designed to lessen congestion
in the streets, to ensure safety from fire and other danger, to promote
health and general welfare, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the
overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population and to
facilitate the provision for transportation, schools, parks and other public
requirements and foster preservation of historical sites.  These regulations
have been made with reasonable consideration, among other things, to the
character of the district and its particular suitability for particular uses,
with a view to conserving and improving the living quality of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of lands throughout the City of Carroll.



170.03   DEFINITIONS. 



For the purpose of interpreting this Ordinance, certain items and words are
hereby defined.  Words used in the present tense shall include the future;
the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural singular; and
the word “shall” is always mandatory.



1.   “Accessory building or use”.  A separate subordinate building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the principal building or to the
principal use of the premises, and is located on the same lot as the main
building.  An accessory use is one which is incidental to the main use of
the premises.



2.   “Active Solar Energy System”.  A solar energy system whose
primary purpose is to harvest energy by transforming solar energy into
another form of energy or transferring heat from a collector to another
medium using mechanical, electrical, or chemical means.



3.   “Administrative Officer”.  The City Manager of the City of
Carroll or his designated appointee.



4.   “Agriculture”.  Agricultural activity, including forest and
forest products, harvest and management, dairy farming, livestock grazing and
pasturage, truck gardening, the raising of crops, fruit and nursery stock,
fish farms, animal kennels and fur bearing animal farms, and the harvesting,
processing, packaging, shipping, and selling of products produced on the
premises, and incidental farm occupations and uses such as machinery, farm
equipment and domestic repair and construction, excluding commercial feed
lots.



5.   “Alley”.  A minor public or private thoroughfare, which affords
only the secondary means of access to property abutting thereon, and is used
for service purposes.



6.   “Alterations – Structural”.  A change in the supporting
members of a building, such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams, or
girders.  An enlargement of the size or height of a building shall be
construed to be an alteration.



7.   “Alterations – Substantial”.  Any change in or enlargement of
any building or other improvement covered by this Ordinance that will: (1)
upon completion, affect a change in the use thereof, or (2) that has the
effect of enlarging the floor area thereof.



8.   “Animal Hospital or Clinic”.  An establishment where animals are
admitted principally for examination, treatment or care by a doctor of
veterinary medicine.  This shall include open kennels and runs.



9.   “Animals – Food”.  Fowl, cattle, swine, sheep, ducks, geese,
rabbits, and other animals raised for the purpose of food consumption.



10.   “Animals – Fur”.  Animals raised for their pelts.



11.   “Animals – Pets”.  Any animal that is tamed or domesticated
(dogs, cats, etc.).



12.   “Apartment”.  A room or suite of rooms intended or designed for
use as residence and included kitchen facilities.



13.   “Apartment House”.  A building or portion thereof used or
designed as a residence for three or more families, households or groups of
persons occupying separate apartments and living independently of each other.



14.   “Automobile Repair-Station (Garage)”.  A place where the
following services may be carried out: general repair, engine rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision service such as body, frame and
fender straightening and repair, painting and undercoating of automobiles and
the sale of engine fuels stored in underground tanks.



15.   “Automobile Service Station”.  A place of business where engine
fuels (stored in tanks) kerosene, motor oil, lubricants or grease are
retailed directly to the public including the sale of minor accessories and
services for motor vehicles.



16.   “Automobile Wrecking Yard”.  An area of land where 3 or more
motor vehicles, machinery, or equipment drawn or operated by a motorized
mechanical unit, not in running or operable condition, or parts thereof are
stored in the open; and any land, building or structure used for wrecking,
abandoning or storing of such motor vehicles.



17.   “Basement”.  That portion of a building at least partly
underground but having at least one-half of the height of one or more walls
below the grade.



18.   “Bed & Breakfast”.  A lodging house providing guest rooms not
exceeding 4, and serving a meal or meals to guests, where lodging is provided
for any number of days and nights.  A Bed & Breakfast is often but need not
be a private residence of the owner or host.  It may not advertise itself as
a restaurant, but may advertise and make reservations in the manner of a
hotel or motel.



19.   “Billboard”.  A sign which has a flat surface sign space upon
which advertising may be posted, painted, or affixed, and which is primarily
designed for the rental or lease of such sign space for advertising not
relating to the use of the property upon which the sign exists.



20.   “Blade”.  An element of a wind turbine which acts as a part of
an airfoil assembly, thereby extracting through rotation, kinetic energy
directly from the wind.



21.   “Board”.  The Board of Adjustment of the City of Carroll, Iowa.



22.   “Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House”.  A dwelling containing a
single dwelling unit and not more than 10 guest rooms or suites of rooms,
where lodging is provided with or without meals, for compensation for more
than one week.



23.   “Building”.  A structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.



24.   “Building, Detached”.  A building having no common wall
connection with another building.



25.   “Building, Existing”.  A building erected prior to the adoption
of this Ordinance or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.



26.   “Building, Height of”.  The vertical distance from the curb
level to the level of the highest point of the roof adjacent to the street
wall in the case of a flat roof, to the highest point on the roof for gable,
hip and gambrel roofs.  Where a building is set back from the street line,
its height may be measured from the average elevation of the finished grade
of the front yard, provided the building is at least as far distant from the
street line as such grade is above the street level.



27.   “Building-integrated Solar Energy Systems”.  An active solar
energy system that is integral part of a principal or accessory building,
rather than a separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an
architectural or structural component of a building.  Building-integrated
systems include but are not limited to photovoltaic or hot water solar energy
systems that are contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and
awnings.



28.   “Building Line”.  The perimeter of that portion of a building
or structure nearest a property line, but excluding open steps, non-roofed
decks, cornices and other ornamental features projecting ten feet or less
from the walls of the building or structure.  Such non-roofed decks and
other ornamental features may not have more than a four feet vertical
dimension of any of their walls permanently enclosed, screened or sided.



29.   “Business”.  Engagement in the purchase, sale, barter or
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or service or the maintenance or
operation of offices or recreational or amusement enterprises.



30.   “Carport”.  A roofed structure providing space for the parking
of motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides.  A carport
attached to a principal building is considered a part of the principal
building and subject to all yard requirements in this chapter.



31.   “City Engineer”.  The City Engineer or one acting in that
capacity.



32.   “Clerk”.  The City Clerk of the City of Carroll, Iowa.



33.   “Commission”.  The City Planning and Zoning Commission of the
City of Carroll, Iowa.



34.   “Common Wall”.  An unbroken wall shared by two or more separate
buildings.



35.   “Comprehensive Plan”.  The general plan for land use,
transportation and community facilities prepared and maintained by the
Commission and adopted by the Council.



36.   “Condominium”.  A single unit in a multiunit dwelling or
structure, that is separately owned and may be combined with an undivided
interest in the common areas and facilities of the property.



37.   “Congregate Residence”.  Any building or portion thereof that
contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanitation as required by this
code, and may include facilities for eating and cooking for occupancy by
other than a family.  A congregate residence shall be permitted to be a
shelter, convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but
does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels, motels, bed &
breakfasts or lodging houses.



38.   “Council”.  The City Council of the City of Carroll, Iowa.



39.   “Day Care”.  The caring for of six or more unrelated children
under the age of 12 years out of their home for two hours or more, but less
than 24 hours a day, for compensation.



40.   “District”.  The area defined as a zoning district within which
certain zoning provisions apply under this Ordinance.



41.   “Dwelling, Multi-Family”.  A building or portion thereof
designed for occupancy by three or more families living independently in
which they may or may not share common entrances and/or other spaces. 
Individual dwelling units may be owned as condominiums, or offered for rent.



42.   “Dwelling, Single Family”.  A detached dwelling unit with
kitchen and sleeping facilities, designed for occupancy by one family.



43.   “Dwelling, Townhouse”.  Dwelling units having one or more
common walls designed so as to have direct access outside.



44.   “Dwelling, Two-Family or Duplex”.  A detached building
arranged, designed or intended to be occupied by two families or housekeeping
units living independently of each other.



45.   “Dwelling Unit”.  One or more habitable rooms which are
intended or designed for human occupancy and designed for one family with
facilities for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.



46.   “Employees”.  All persons including proprietors working in the
premises during the largest shift of employment.



47.   “Enforcement Officer”.  The City Manager of the City of Carroll
or his designated appointee.



48.   “Exception”.  Modification of the general provisions of this
Ordinance under particular given circumstances after it is determined that
strict compliance with the Ordinance would cause undue hardship on the
applicant.  This term is not synonymous with “special exception” for
which see “special use.”



49.   “Family”.  One or more person related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or legal guardianship occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single household or housekeeping unit, or a group of not more than three
persons unrelated by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship living
as a single household or housekeeping unit.



50.   “Farming”.  The growing of agricultural products.  Farming
shall not include the commercial operation of stockyards, slaughter houses or
feed lots.



51.   “Flood Area”.  Any land or portion of land, adjacent to a
stream, river, or other natural drainage channels or basins, that is subject
to overflow, inundation, or flood hazard from the unusual and rapid
accumulation or runoff of surface water from any source.



52.   “Floor Area, Gross”.  The sum of the horizontal areas of floors
of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls or, if
appropriate, from the center line of dividing walls; this includes courts and
decks or porches when covered by a roof.



53.   “Floor Area, Net”.  The gross floor area exclusive of vents,
shafts, courts, elevators, stairways, exterior walls and similar facilities.



54.   “Garage, Private”.  An accessory building or portion of a
building in which one (1) or more motor vehicles are housed, but in which no
business, service or industry is carried on.



55.   “Garage, Public”.  A building or portion of a building other
than a private garage used for the care, storage, and repair of motor
vehicles or where such vehicles are parked or stored for compensation, hire
or sale.



56.   “Grade”.  The average ground level of the finished surface of
the ground at the exterior walls of the building or structure.



57.   “Grid-intertie Solar Energy System”.  A photovoltaic solar
energy system that is connected to an electric circuit served by an electric
utility company.



58.   “Height of Building”.  See “Building, Height of”.



59.   “Height, Total System”.  The height above grade of the wind
energy system, including the tower generating unit, and the highest vertical
extension of any blades or rotors.  Height shall be measured from the
adjacent grade of the tower to the tip of the turbine (blade) at its highest
point.



60.   “Home Occupation”.  An occupation or activity carried on by the
immediate members of the family residing in the dwelling.



61.   “Hotel”.  See 170.03(78), “Motel, Hotel”.



62.   “Junkyard”.  An open area where waste or used materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, dismantled, or handled,
including but not limited to scrap metal, pipe tubing, casing, paper, rags,
rubber tires, and bottles.  A junkyard includes automobile wrecking yards or
any area of more than 200 square feet for the storage, keeping or abandonment
of junk not including garbage.



63.   “Lot”.  A lot is a parcel of land under one ownership on which
a principal building and its accessories are or may be placed, together with
the required open spaces, having its frontage upon on one or more streets or
public place.



64.   “Lot Area”.  The area of a horizontal plane, bounded by the
front, side, and rear lot lines.



65.   “Lot, Corner”.  A lot situated at the intersection of two or
more intersecting streets with a boundary thereof bordering each street.



66.   “Lot Line”.  The property line bounding a lot.



67.   “Lot Line, Front”.  For an interior lot, that line separating
the lot from the street.  For a corner or a double frontage lot, that line
separating said lot from the street that is designated as the front street.



68.   “Lot Line, Rear”.  The lot line opposite the front lot line. In
case of an irregular shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line
not less than ten feet in length and parallel to the front lot line.



69.   “Lot Line, Side”.  Any lot line other than the front or rear
lot line.



70.   “Lot of Record”.  A lot, the plat of which either alone or with
other lots has been recorded in the Recorder's Office in Carroll County.



71.   “Lot, Through (Double Frontage)”.  A lot having a frontage on
two parallel streets.



72.   “Lot, Zoned”.  A parcel of land which (at the time of filing
for a building permit) is designated by its owner or developer as a parcel of
land to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under a single ownership
or unified control.  (A “zoned lot” may or may not coincide with a lot
of record).



73.   “May”.  Means permissive.



74.   “Manufactured Home”.  Is a factory-built structure constructed
under authority of 42 U.S.C. Section 5403, which is required by federal law
to display a seal from the United States depart of housing and urban
development, and was constructed on or after June 15, 1976.



75.   “Meteorological Equipment”.  Equipment primarily used to
measure wind speed and directions, including other data relevant to locating
an operational wind energy conversion system.



76.   “Mobile Home”.  Any vehicle without motive power, used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance on
public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed as
will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons, but shall also include any such vehicle with motive power, not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa.  A mobile home is not built to a
mandatory building code, contains no state or federal seals and was built
before June 15, 1976.



77.   “Mobile Home Park”.  Any site, lot, field or tract of land
under common ownership upon which two or more occupied manufactured housing
units are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall
include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended
for use as part of the equipment of such Mobile Park.  (Code of Iowa Chapter
435).



78.   “Motel, Hotel”.  Any building containing six or more guest
rooms intended or designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out
to be occupied, or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.



79.   “Non-Conforming Lot”.  A lot whose width, area or other
dimension did not conform to the regulations when this code became effective.



80.   “Non-Conforming Sign”.  A sign or sign structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the time this code became effective, which does
not now conform.



81.   “Non-Conforming Structure”.  A building or structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the time this code became effective, which was
designed, erected or structurally altered for a use that does not conform to
the zoning regulations of the zone in which it is located.



82.   “Non-Conforming Use”.  A use that lawfully occupied a building
or land at the time this code became effective, which has been lawfully
continued and which does not now conform to the use regulations.



83.   “Nursing or Rest Home”.  A home for the aged or infirmed in
which three (3) or more persons not of the immediate family are received,
kept, or provided with food and shelter, or care for compensation; but not
including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured.



84.   “Off-grid Solar Energy System”.  A photovoltaic solar energy
system in which the circuits energized by the solar energy system are not
electronically connected in any way to electric circuits that are served by
an electric utility company.



85.   “Parcel”.  A part of a tract of land.



86.   “Parking Lot”.  A hard-surfaced area (either Asphaltic cement
or Portland concrete cement) that is able to withstand vehicular traffic of
other heavy-impact uses. 



87.   “Parking Space”.  A space required for vehicular parking of a
single vehicle.



88.   “Passive Solar Energy System”.  A solar energy system that
captures solar light or heat without transforming it to another form of
energy or transferring the energy via a heat exchanger.



89.   “Person”.  Every natural person, firm, partnership,
association, or corporation having legal rights and responsibilities.



90.   ‘Planned Unit Development”.  A project located on a single
tract, controlled by one owner, corporation or agency, including usable open
space for the mutual benefit of the entire tract, designed to provide variety
and diversity through the variance, other than use regulations, of normal
zoning and subdivision standards, so that maximum long range benefit can be
gained and unique features of the site preserved or enhanced.



91.   “Pools (Swimming), Hot Tubs, and Spas.”



A.   Above ground/on ground pool.  See “Private swimming pool”.



B.   Barrier.  A fence, a wall, a building wall, the wall of an
above-ground pool or a combination thereof, which completely surrounds the
swimming pool and obstructs access to the swimming pool.



C.   Hot tub.  See “Private swimming pool”.



D.   In-ground pool.  See “Private swimming pool”.



E.   Power safety cover.  A pool cover that is placed over the water
area, and is opened and closed with a motorized mechanism activated by a
control switch.



F.   Private swimming pool.  Any structure that contains water over 24
inches in depth and which is used, or intended to be used for swimming or
recreational bathing and which is available only to the family and guests of
the householder.  This includes in-ground, above ground, and on-ground
swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.



G.   Private swimming pool, indoor.  Any private swimming pool that is
totally contained within a private structure and surrounded on all four sides
by walls of said structure.



H.   Private swimming pool, outdoor.  Any private swimming pool that is
not an indoor pool.



I.   Public swimming pool.  Any swimming pool other than a private
swimming pool.



J.   Spa.  See “Private swimming pool”.



92.   “Photovoltaic System”.  An active solar energy system that
converts solar energy directly into electricity.



93.   “Principal Building”.  A principal building is a non-accessory
building in which the principal use of the lot on which it is located is
conducted.



94.   “Public Land”.  Land owned, controlled, and/or operated by a
governing unit.



95.   “Qualified Professional”.  An individual certified by the
manufacturer of a wind energy conversion system as qualified to install
and/or maintain that manufacturer’s wind energy conversion system.



96.   “Renewable Energy Easement, Solar Energy Easement”.  An
easement that limits the height or location, or both, of permissible
development on the burdened land in terms of a structure or vegetation, or
both, for the purpose of providing access for the benefited land to wind or
sunlight passing over the burdened land.



97.   “Renewable Energy System”.  A solar energy or wind energy
system. Renewable energy systems do not include passive systems that serve a
dual function, such as a greenhouse or window.



98.   “Roof Pitch”.  The final exterior slope of a building roof,
calculated by the rise over the run, typically but not exclusively expressed
in twelfths such as 3/12, 9/12, 12/12.



99.   “Rotor Diameter”.  The diameter of the circle described by the
moving rotor blades.



100.   “Senior Housing”.  All housing projects designed primarily or
exclusively for assisted or independent living by persons over 55 years of
age, or handicapped or disabled persons of any age.



101.   “Setback”.  The minimum required distance between the property
line and the building line.



102.   “Shadow Flicker”.  Alternating in the light intensity caused
by the moving blade of a wind power generator casting shadows on the ground
and stationary objects such as the window of a dwelling.



103.   “Sign”.  Any object or device, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct,
or attract attention to any object, person, institution, organization,
business product, service, event, or location by any means including words,
letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, color, motion, illumination, or
projected images.  A sign includes any billboard but does not include the
following: flags of nations, states, and cities, or merchandise, picture or
models of products or services incorporated with an inside window display; or
works of art, which in no way identify a product or a device.



104.   “Signs, Community”.  Temporary, on- or off-premises signs,
generally made of a woven material or durable synthetic materials primarily
attached to or hung from light poles or on buildings.  These signs are
solely of a decorative, festive and/or informative nature announcing
activities, promotions or events with seasonal or traditional themes having
broad community interest, and which are sponsored or supported by a
jurisdiction-based nonprofit organization.



105.   “Solar Access”.  Unobstructed access to the solar resource
(see definition below) on a lot or building including access across adjacent
parcel air rights, for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a
solar energy system.



106.   “Solar Collector”.  A device, structure or a part of a device
or structure for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant
energy into thermal, mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.



107.   “Solar Collector Surface”.  Any part of a solar collector that
absorbs solar energy for the use in the collector’s energy transformation
process Collector surface does not include frames, supports and mounting
hardware.



108.   “Solar Daylighting”.  A device specifically designed to
capture and redirect the visible portion of the solar spectrum, while
controlling the infrared portion, for use in illuminating interior building
spaces in lieu of artificial lighting.



109.   “Solar Energy”.  Radiant energy received from the sun that can
be collected in the form of heat or light by a solar collector.



110.   “Solar Energy Device”.  A system or series of mechanisms
designed primarily to provide heating, cooling, electrical power, mechanical
power, solar daylighting or to provide any combustion of the foregoing by
means of collecting and transferring solar generated energy into such uses
either by active or passive means.  Such systems may also have the
capability of storing such energy device such as a trombe wall and not merely
a part of a normal structure such as a window.



111.   “Solar Energy System”.  A device or structural design feature,
a substantial purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting
or provide for the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for
space heating or cooling, electricity generating, or water heating.



112.   “Solar Heat Exchanger”.  A component of a solar energy device
that is used to transfer heat from one substance to another, either liquid or
gas.



113.   “Solar Hot Air System”.  (also referred to as Solar Air Heat
or Solar Furnace) – An active solar energy system that includes a solar
collector to provide direct supplemental space heating by heating and
re-circulating conditioned building air.  The most efficient performance
typically uses a vertically mounted collector on a south-facing wall.



114.   “Solar Hot Water System”.  (also referred to as Solar Thermal)
– A system that includes a solar collector and a heat exchanger that heats
or preheats water for building heating systems or other hot water needs,
including residential domestic hot water and hot water for commercial
processes.



115.   “Solar Mounting Device”.  Racking, frames, or other devices
that allow the mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the
ground.



116.   “Solar Resource”.  A view of the sun from a specific point on
a lot or building that is not obscured by any vegetation, building, or object
for a minimum of four hours between the hours of 9:00 AM and 3:00 PM Standard
time on any day of the year.



117.   “Solar Storage Unit”.  A component of a solar energy device
that is used to store solar generated electricity or heat for later use.



118.   “Special Use” or “Special Use Permit”.  A reasonable use
provided for within a zoning classification that will not impair the public
health, safety, or welfare in a zone but does not conform with the character
of the zone in which it is located.  Certain restrictions on the location,
aesthetics, size, and other performance standards may be imposed.  A special
use permit is not transferable by the owner.



119.   “Street”.  The entire width between the boundary lines of a
public right-of-way which provides for public means of access to abutting
property or for public use for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and the placement of utilities and including the terms “road”,
“highway”, “lane”, “place”, “avenue”, or other similar
designations.



120.   “Street Line”.  The dividing line between a lot and a street.



121.   “Structure”.  That which is built or constructed, an edifice
or building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner.



122.   “Subdivision”.  The division of land into two (2) or more lots
or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, or
transfer of ownership or building development.  The term, when appropriate
to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided, or, the re-subdivision of land theretofore divided or platted
into lots or other divisions of land, or, if a new street is involved, any
division of land.  This ordinance hereby adopts and incorporates by
reference the restrictions of Chapter 354, The Code of Iowa.



123.   “Tent”.  A shelter made of flexible material erected directly
on the ground providing temporary facilities for sleeping, recreation or the
display of goods or services.



124.   “Tower”.  The vertical component of a wind energy conversion
system that elevates the wind generator above the ground.



125.   “Tract”.  An aliquot part of a section, a lot within an
official plat, or a governmental lot.



126.   “Trailer”.  See “Mobile Home”.



127.   “Trailer Park”.  See “Mobile Home Park”.



128.   “Truck Repair-Station (Garage)”.  A place where the following
services may be carried out: general repair, engine rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision service such as body, frame and
fender straightening and repair, painting and undercoating of trucks and
heavy equipment and the sale of engine fuels stored in underground tanks.



129.   “Use”.  The purpose for which land or structure is designed,
arranged, intended or for which it is occupied or maintained.



130.   “Use, Principal”.  The principal use for which that land or
building is designed, arranged, intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.



131.   “Use, Special”.  Deleted, See 77B. “Special Use” or
“Special Use Permit”.



132.   “Variance”.  A modification of the special regulations of this
Ordinance granted by resolution of the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
the terms of this Ordinance for the purpose of assuring that no property,
because of special circumstances applicable to it, shall be deprived of
privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and zone.



133.   “Warehouse”.  A warehouse is a structure or part of a
structure, public or private, for storing goods, wares and merchandise,
whether for the owners or others.



134.   “Wind Energy Conversion System”.  A system consisting of at
least one of the following: a wind turbine, a tower, and associated control
or conversion electronics, which is intended to reduce on-site consumption of
utility power, is incidental and subordinate to a permitted use on the same
parcel and has a rated capacity of up to one hundred (100) kilowatts.



135.   “Wind Turbine”.  A wind turbine is any piece of electrical
generating equipment that converts the kinetic energy of blowing into
electrical energy.



136.   “Yard”.  The unoccupied or unobstructed open space on the same
lot with a principal building.



137.   “Yard, Front”.  An open space extending the full width of the
lot, between the front lot line and the nearest building line of the
principal building.



138.   “Yard, Rear”. An open space extending the full width of the
lot, between the rear lot line and the nearest building line of the principal
building.



139.   “Yard, Side”.  An open space between the principal building
and the side lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard.  This
distance is measured from the nearest point of the side lot line to the
nearest point of the outside wall or foundation of the principal building.



170.04   DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED. 



For the purpose of this Chapter, the City is hereby divided into districts as
follows:




“A-1” District   (Agricultural)



“A-2” District   (Agricultural)



“AP” Overlay   (Agricultural Preservation)



“R-1” District   (Low Density Residential)



“R-2” District   (Low Density Residential)



“R-3” District   (Low Density Residential)



“R-4” District   (Medium Density Residential)



“R-5” District   (High Density Residential)



“R-6” District   (Mobile Home Parks)



“R-7” District   (One & Two Family Residential)



“R-8” District   (Residential-Agricultural Transitional District)



“RB-1” District   (Residential-Business Transitional District)



P.U.D.      (Planned Unit Development)



“B-1” District   (Light Business)



“B-2” District   (General Business & Commercial)



“B-3” District   (Central Business District)



“I-1” District   (Light Industrial)



“I-2” District   (General Industrial)



“F-1” District   (Flood Plain)



W.E.C.S.   (Wind Energy Conversion Systems)



S.E.S.   (Solar Energy Standards)



170.05   CLASSIFICATION OF NEWLY ANNEXED TERRITORY.



1.   Every petitioner for voluntary annexation shall be required to state
the reasons for wishing to join the City and request zoning for the area to
be annexed.



2.   All newly annexed territory shall be in the A-1 District until zoned
by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council.



170.06   ZONING MAP. 



The location and boundaries of the districts are hereby established as shown
on the official zoning map of the City of Carroll, Iowa, and which, with all
its designations, and amendments, is hereby made a part of this ordinance,
and hereafter referred to as the “Zoning Map”, to be maintained in the
office of the City Clerk. (See EDITOR’S NOTE at the end of this chapter for
ordinances amending the zoning map.)



170.07   RULES FOR THE INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES. 



When uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules apply:



1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines.



2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.



3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following city limits.



4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.



5.   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed as
following such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line
shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated
as approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals,
lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center
lines.



6.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extension of features
indicated in subsection (1) through (5) above shall be so construed. 
Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.



170.08   APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS. 



The regulations set by this chapter within each district are minimum
regulations and apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land,
and particularly, except as hereinafter provided:



1.   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereinafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless in
conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located.



2.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to exceed the height, to accommodate or house a greater number of families,
to occupy a greater percentage of the lot area, or to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces, when
herein required, or in other manner contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.



3.   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required under or in connection with any building for the
purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be included as a part of a
yard, open space or off-street parking or loading space similarly for any
other building.



4.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein.  Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.



5.   Not more than two (2) buildings shall be permitted on any lot, tract,
or parcel of land until the same has been platted in accordance with the laws
of the State of Iowa; and, no principal building shall be permitted on any
lot formed by the process of dividing a lot of record or putting together
pieces or parts of platted lots of record except pursuant to a special use
permit issued by the Zoning Board of Adjustment after notice mailed to all
owners and occupants of land within two hundred feet of the site, hearing,
and finding that issuance of the permit will not contribute excessively to
any adverse effect on infrastructure, city services, traffic and parking, or
property values in the locale.  Special protective conditions may be imposed
and the Board shall call for and consider the evaluation and opinions of the
City’s professional staff in making its decision.



6.   No building in the rear of any principal building on the same
interior lot shall be used for residence purposes, except as may be otherwise
specifically provided in this chapter.



7.   Any lot upon which a principal building is placed shall abut on, and
be accessible by means of, a city street, permanent easement or public place
with not less than twenty feet of frontage on such street, permanent easement
or public place.



The driveway, apron or entrance access from the front property line to the
public street shall be paved with concrete not less than six (6) inches in
residential districts and concrete not less than eight (8) inches in
thickness in commercial or industrial districts.



8.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the restoration of any wall or
other portion of a building declared unsafe by the Chief Building Official.



170.09   HOME OCCUPATIONS.



1.   Statement of Intent.  Within the various districts as described,
certain uses are permitted as they are mutually compatible.  It is the
intent of this chapter to restrict incompatible uses; however, it is not the
intent of this chapter to eliminate certain home occupations which may be
compatible with residential areas.  Home occupations are hereby permitted
and defined as business, occupation, or profession carried on within a
residential dwelling by a resident thereof, and shall have the following
characteristics:



A.   There shall be no exterior advertising other than identification of
the home occupation by a sign which shall be attached to the dwelling and
shall not exceed one square foot in area which shall not be illuminated.



B.   There shall be no emission of smoke, dust, odor, fumes, glare, noise,
vibration, electrical or electronic disturbance at or beyond the property
line.



C.   The activity shall employ in the home only members of the immediate
family of the residents of the dwelling.



D.   The use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling purposes and shall not change the character thereof.



E.   There shall be no mechanical equipment used except as is customary
for domestic household purposes.



F.   There shall not be any activity so as to cause parking and/or traffic
problems annoying to the public.  A home occupation shall provide additional
off-street parking area in accordance with this Ordinance.



G.   The above listed characteristics shall not be construed to restrict
the sale of garden produce on the premises, provided this exception shall not
extend to allow the operation of a commercial greenhouse or nursery, or the
existence of stands or booths for the display of produce grown on the
premises.



H.   No more than four rummage or garage sales are permitted per year at
any one residence.



2.   Permit Required.  Home occupations shall be permitted as special use
under the general use regulations of the zoning district.  A special use
permit therefore must first be obtained by application to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.  The Board may grant such permit if it reasonably concludes from
the evidence that the home occupation proposed will meet the standards set
out in the first paragraph of this section.  The Board may, if warranted by
the evidence, impose, as additional conditions, such measures as may be
deemed necessary to protect the legitimate use and enjoyment of neighboring
properties.  Any failure to obtain such permit when required, or to comply
with the standards and conditions aforesaid, when issued, shall constitute a
violation of this section and shall furthermore be ground for revocation of
said permit, after notice and hearing by the Board of Adjustment.



3.   Permit Revocation.  Home occupations shall be permitted as an
accessory use subject to the above requirements.  If a written complaint is
filed with the Building Official by a property owner within a radius of 300
feet of the property, a public hearing before the Board shall be required to
determine the continuance of the home occupation.



4.   Permit Possession.  Possession of the Home Occupation Permit shall
rest with the property owner and not the property, and is non-transferable.



170.10   NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND, NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES AND
NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.



1.   Statement of Intent.  Within the various districts established by
this chapter or its amendments there exist structures and uses of land with
or without structures which are lawful or vested non-conforming uses prior to
the adoption of this chapter in its amendments, but which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the provision of this chapter.  It
is the intent of this chapter to permit those non-conformities to continue
even though they are incompatible with the district in which they are located
so long as provisions hereinafter set forth are complied with.  It is the
general intent of this chapter to restrict non-conformities so that
compatibility of land use and zoning will prevail.



2.   Non-Conforming Uses of Land.  The lawful use of land upon which no
building or structure is erected or constructed, which is a vested
non-conforming use under this and prior zoning ordinances as adopted or
amended, may be continued as long as such use remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:



A.   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged, increased or extended
to occupy a greater area of land.



B.   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel.



C.   No structure or building shall be constructed on or moved onto the
land, unless the use is changed to a use permitted in that district.



D.   If any non-conforming use of land ceases for any reasons for a period
of one (1) year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
district regulations for the district in which such land is located.



3.   Non-conforming Uses of Structures.  If a lawful use of vested
non-conforming use of a structure and land in combination exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment to these regulations, that would not
be allowed in the district under the terms of these regulations, the use may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.



A.   No existing structure devoted entirely or in part to a use not
permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is located shall be
enlarged, extended, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, unless the
use is changed to a use permitted in the district in which the structure is
located, or this it is not enlarged or altered in anyway which increases the
degree or nature of its non-conformity, and, provided that any enlargement or
addition shall conform to current zoning regulations.  Should the structure
causing a non-conforming use be destroyed by any means to an extent of sixty
percent (60%) or more of its replacement cost at the time of destruction,
exclusive of the foundation, it shall not be reconstructed.



B.   Any vested non-conforming use may be extended throughout any part of
a building which was manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time
it became non-conforming.  No such use shall be extended to any land outside
such building.



C.   If no structural alterations are made, a vested non-conforming use of
a structure may be changed to another non-conforming use of a similar nature
or a more restrictive classification.  Whenever a non-conforming use has
been changed to one of a more restrictive classification, or to a conforming
use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to one of a less restrictive
classification.  Any proposed change or addition in usage of a
non-conforming structure must first be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Such review shall consider such features as similarities of use,
character of use, traffic generation, and other applicable features.  A
recommendation shall be forwarded to the Zoning Board of Adjustment for
review and determination if the proposed use is of a similar nature or one of
a more restrictive classification.  The Board of Adjustment shall then
approve or disapprove the proposed use.



4.   Non-Conforming Structures.  Where a vested non-conforming structure
is non-conforming by reasons of restriction on area, lot coverage, height,
yards, or other characteristics of the structure and its location on the lot,
such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:



A.   That it is not enlarged or altered in a way which increases its
non-conformity, and provided that such enlargement or addition conforms in
all respects to existing zoning regulations.



B.   Should it be destroyed by any means to an extent of sixty percent
(60%) or more of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, exclusive
of the foundations, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.



C.   Maintenance and Repair to vested Non-conforming Structures.  Nothing
in this section shall prohibit the maintenance and repair of vested
non-conforming structure to keep such structures in sound and safe condition,
provided that no structural enlargement, extension, alteration, or change
shall be made to increase the degree of non-conformity.



5.   There may be change of tenancy, ownership, or management of any
existing non-conforming use of land, structure, or land and structure
providing there is not a change in the nature or character of said
non-conforming use.



170.11   A-1, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  This district is intended to accommodate areas
predominantly agricultural in character or undeveloped for urban use.



2.   Principal Permitted Use.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Agricultural crops, including truck gardening, but not raising of
poultry, pets, or livestock for commercial purposes, or on a scale that would
be objectionable because of noise or odor or sight to surrounding residences.



B.   Plant nurseries including greenhouses.



C.   Stables.



D.   Cemeteries.



E.   Public or private parks, playgrounds, historical sites, golf courses,
and other outdoor recreation facilities which are commonly, but not
necessarily, operated on a non-profit basis; however, amusement parks, golf
driving ranges, golf miniature putting courses, normally operated for profit
and employing manufactured or constructed facilities of an unnatural or
non-environmental design shall be excluded.



F.   Country Clubs.



G.   Churches.



H.   Schools and colleges, public and private.



I.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities
excluding business offices and repair and storage facilities.



J.   Single family detached dwellings, provided the minimum width for any
building elevation shall not be less than twenty (20) feet.



K.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use,
including outdoor swimming pools.



L.   Private garages or parking areas.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the "A-1"
District only in accordance with the provision set forth hereinafter.



A.   Gasoline service stations and neighborhood and convenience stores
which front on either a collector or arterial street with hours of operation
between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.  Gasoline service stations shall refer to
any building or premises used for the retail sale of automotive fuels, oils,
and other items customarily associated with the sale of such products, but
not for the purpose of making other than minor repairs.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area Single family dwelling - 43,560 sq. ft. (excluding
rights-of-way)



B.   Lot Width Single family dwelling at building line, 100 ft.



C.   Front Yard 50 feet minimum



D.   Side Yard 20 feet minimum



E.   Rear Yard 50 feet minimum



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit required for single
family dwellings; and for all other permitted uses as required in Section
170.34.



170.12   A-2, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  This district is intended to accommodate areas
predominately agricultural in character or undeveloped for urban use and
which are beyond the corporate limits but which fall in the extended area set
out in the 28E Agreement between the City of Carroll and Carroll County for
zoning, platting and building code control.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Agricultural purposes including necessary buildings and structures
which shall be used for agriculture including but not limited to farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture and animal and poultry
husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating and storing,
the produce, provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses
shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.



B.   Public parks, playgrounds and recreational areas.



C.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities.



D.   Cemeteries of 10 acres or more in size.



E.   Churches, chapels or parish houses located not less than 20 feet from
any side lot line in any “R” District.



F.   Any building or structure occupied or used for nursery, elementary,
junior high or high schools, public libraries and similar public cultural
uses located not less than 20 feet from any side lot line.



G.   Sale of nursery and greenhouse products.



H.   Railroad rights of way and trackage, not including switching,
storage, terminal facilities or freight yards.



I.   Single Family detached dwellings.



J.   Transformer stations or booster or pressure regulating stations
without service yard or storage.



K.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use,
including outdoor swimming pools.



L.   Private parking areas.



M.   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent home,
or similar institutions that are connected and served by City of Carroll
public water and sanitary sewer systems.



(Ord. 1703 - May-17 Supp.)



3.   Special Uses:  The following special uses are permitted in the
“A-2” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter.



A.   Home occupations.



B.   When granted Special Use Permit by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission:



(1)   Sanitary landfills, in accordance with County and State regulations
except that no sanitary landfill shall be operated within 1,320 feet of any
“R” District.



(2)   Removal and loading of minerals, sand and gravel, including
equipment, buildings or structures for screening, crushing, mixing, washing
or storage located not less than 500 feet from any “R” District and
suitably distant or properly screened from any designated scenic highway.



(3)   Privately operated country clubs, golf courses, marinas or docking
facilities, guest ranches, swimming clubs, riding stables, lakes, resorts or
similar recreational uses provided that any principal or accessory building
in connection therewith shall be located above flood hazard elevation and not
less than 200 feet from any lot in an “R” District.



(4)   Airports and landing fields.



4.   The following minimum or maximum requirements shall be observed:



A.   Lot area:  The minimum lot area shall be 5 acres.



B.   Lot width: 300 feet minimum



C.   Front Yard: 80 feet minimum along state and federal roads 60 feet
minimum along other public roads.



D.   Side Yards: 30 feet minimum



E.   Rear Yard: 100 feet minimum



F.   The maximum height for a principal structure shall be 30 feet and 15
feet for an accessory structure, except as provided in Section 170.32(1).



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements:  Two per unit required for single
family dwelling; and for all other permitted uses as required in Section
170.34.



170.13   R-1 LOW-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “R-1” District is to
establish and preserve a quiet, single unit residential neighborhood,
preserving large amounts of residential open space, free from other uses,
except those which are compatible with and convenient to the residents of
such a district.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Single family detached dwellings, provided the minimum width for any
building elevation shall not be less than twenty (20) feet.



B.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use,
including outdoor swimming pools.



C.   Public or private parks, playgrounds, historical sites, golf courses,
and other outdoor recreational facilities which are commonly, but not
necessarily, operated on a non-profit basis; however, amusement parks, golf
driving ranges, golf miniature putting courses, normally operated for profit
and employing manufactured or constructed facilities of an unnatural or
non-environmental design shall be excluded.



D.   Schools and colleges, public and private.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“R-1” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   Home Occupations.



B.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities
excluding business offices and repair and storage facilities.



C.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



4.   Minimum Requirement.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 sq. ft. for a single
family dwelling.



B.   Yards:  The yards shall be as follows:



(1)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 35 feet.



(2)   The side yards shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet, except for a
corner lot shall be a minimum of thirty-five (35) feet on the side abutting
the street.  A garage attached to the dwelling may be located five (5) feet
from the side lot line, but not a street line.



(3)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit required for single
family dwellings; and for all other permitted uses as required in Section
170.34.



170.14   R-2, LOW-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  This district is intended to provide for low
density residential areas with single family dwellings and two family
dwellings.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes.



A.   Single Family detached dwellings, provided the minimum width for any
building elevation shall not be less than twenty (20) feet.



B.   Two family dwellings.



C.   Churches, convents, rectories, or manses.



D.   Schools and colleges, public and private.



E.   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent
homes, or other similar institutions.



F.   Funeral homes or mortuaries.



G.   Public and private parks, playgrounds, historical sites, golf
courses, and other outdoor recreational facilities which are commonly, but
not necessarily, operated on a non-profit basis; however, amusement parks,
golf driving ranges, golf miniature putting courses, normally operated for
profit and employing manufactured or constructed facilities of an unnatural
or non-environmental design shall be excluded.



H.   Public buildings, libraries, community buildings, or other similar
public buildings.



I.   Cemeteries.



J.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use,
including outdoor swimming pools.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“R-2” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter.



A.   A use permitted as a special use in the “R-1” District.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirement shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  The minimum lot area shall be 7,500 sq. ft. for a single
family dwelling and 10,000 sq. ft. for a two family dwelling.  Vacant lots
having an area of less than 7,500 sq. ft. and of record at the effective date
of this ordinance may be occupied by a single family dwelling, provided the
yard requirements of this section are complied with.



B.   Yards:  The yards shall be as follows:



(1)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 35 feet.



(2)   The side yards shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet, except on a
corner lot, the side yard shall be a minimum of thirty-five (35) feet on the
side abutting the street.  A garage attached to the dwelling may be located
five (5) feet from the side lot line, but not a street line.



(3)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit for single family and
two family dwellings; and for all other permitted uses as required in Section
170.34.



170.15   A-P, AGRICULTURAL PRESERVATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  This District is an overlay zoning that may be
used in addition to existing zoning such as A or R Districts.  Its intent is
threefold:



A.   To preserve agricultural use of land in areas beyond the corporate
limits but which fall in the area set out in the 28E Agreement between the
City of Carroll and Carroll County for zoning control.



B.   To encourage the ordered development of housing in those areas
immediately adjacent to existing housing within and abutting the city.



C.   To avoid the many problems inherent in the development of 5 acre lots
in areas not adjacent to current development.  These problems include
“hop-scotch” developments that are difficult to provide with city
services as the city expands, and “land-locking” of areas resulting from
development of land abutting roadways with no planned access to inner lots.



2.   Exception for existing homes.  This ordinance shall have no effect
on homes or platted lots in existence as of the date of enactment or the
ordinance by the City of Carroll.



3.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premise shall be used only
for the purposes designated by the underlying zoning.



4.   Special Uses.  The special uses that are permitted in the A – P
Overlay District shall be those allowed by, and according to the procedures
provided in, the underlying zoning.



5.   Minimum Requirements.



A.   Lot size.



(1)   No lot less than 20 acres will be allowed in A-P areas zoned A1 or
A2.



(2)   A-P areas also zoned R are prohibited from having lots or parcels
greater than 2 acres but less than 20 acres.  Minimum lot size must conform
to the designated zoning.



(3)   Uses in the A-P area including commercial, public facilities,
institutional facilities, group living (not including apartments), or parks
that are connected and served by City of Carroll public water and sanitary
sewer systems shall have no minimum lot size except as otherwise required by
the underlying zoning district. This exception applies even when a property
is zoned Al, A2, or R.



(Ord. 1703 - May-17 Supp.)



B.   Width requirements.  No lot in any A-P area also zoned A may have
road or street frontage less than 300 feet, measured at the street.



6.   Corridor Preservation.  No lot in any A-P area may be platted, and
no building permit shall be issued, that would deny future access to interior
areas within any quarter quarter section.  As a minimum, there must be left
in any quarter quarter section sufficient land for a future 100-feet wide
access lane or road to parcels not on street or road frontage, and no plat,
survey or subdivision shall be approved which fails to preserve such a
corridor of access.



7.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Off-street parking requirements
shall be as permitted by the underlying zoning.



170.16   R-3, LOW-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  This district is intended to provide for low
density residential areas with single family dwellings and two family
dwellings.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Any principal use permitted in the “R-2” District.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“R-3” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   Any special use permitted in the “R-2” District.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed;



A.   Lot Area:  The minimum lot area shall be 6,000 sq. ft. for a single
family dwelling and 8,500 sq. ft. for a two family dwelling.



B.   Yards:



(1)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 30 feet.



(2)   The side yard shall be a minimum of seven and one-half (7 1/2) feet,
except on a corner lot the side-yard shall be a minimum of thirty (30) feet
on the side abutting the street.  A garage attached to a dwelling may be
located five (5) feet from the side lot, but not a street line.



(3)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of 15 feet.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit for single family and
two family dwellings; and for all other permitted uses as required in Section
170.34.



170.17   R-4, MEDIUM-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the R-4 District is to establish
and preserve a low to medium density residential neighborhood, free from
other uses, except those which are compatible with and convenient to the
residents of such a district.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Residential, one to four unit dwellings.



B.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use.



C.   Boarding and Lodging Houses.



D.   Any principal use permitted in the “R-2” District.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“R-4” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   Home Occupations.



B.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities
excluding business offices and repair and storage facilities.



C.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  The minimum lot area shall be 4,800 sq. ft. for a single
family dwelling, 7,000 sq. ft. for a two family dwelling; and for each unit
over two, an additional 1,500 sq. ft. minimum.



B.   Yards:



(1)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



(2)   The side yard for single family dwellings and duplexes shall be a
minimum of five (5) feet except on a corner lot.  The street side yard for
all buildings shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet on the side abutting a
street.  Principal buildings other than the single family dwellings and
duplexes shall have a minimum side yard of ten (10) feet.  A garage attached
to a dwelling may be located five (5) feet from the side lot line but not a
street line.



(3)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of 10 feet.  A garage attached to
a dwelling may be located five (5) feet from an alley line.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit for one to four unit
dwellings; and one additional parking space is required for each renter in a
rooming or boarding house; and for all other permitted uses as required in
Section 170.34.



170.18   R-5, HIGH-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the R-5 District is to establish
and preserve a medium to high density residential neighborhood free from
other uses except those which are compatible with and convenient to the
residents of such a district.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes.



A.   Single family detached dwellings, provided the minimum width for any
building elevation shall not be less than twenty (20) feet.



B.   Two family dwellings.



C.   Multi-family dwellings.



D.   Boarding and Lodging Houses.



E.   Churches, convents, rectories, or manses.



F.   Schools and colleges, public and private.



G.   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent
homes, or other similar institutions.



H.   Clubs or lodges.



I.   Funeral Homes and Mortuaries.



J.   Public or private parks, playgrounds, historical sites, golf courses,
and other outdoor recreational facilities which are commonly, but not
necessarily, operated on a non-profit basis; however, amusement parks, golf
driving ranges, golf miniature putting courses, normally operated for profit
and employing manufactured or constructed facilities of an unnatural or
non-environmental design shall be excluded.



K.   Public buildings, libraries, community buildings, or other similar
public buildings.



L.   Cemeteries.



M.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use,
including outdoor swimming pools.



N.   Parking Lots.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“R-5” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter.



A.   Home Occupations.



B.   Grocery (neighborhood and convenience) stores which front on either a
collector or arterial street with hours of operation between 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m.



C.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities
excluding business offices and repair and storage facilities.



D.   Business and Professional offices.



E.   Medical clinics, dental clinics, or similar uses.



F.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  The minimum lot area shall be 4,800 sq. ft. for a single
family dwelling, 7,000 sq. ft. for a two family dwelling, and 8,000 sq. ft.
or 2,000 sq. ft. per dwelling unit, whichever is greater, for multiple family
dwelling.  Vacant lots having an area of less than 4,800 sq. ft. and of
record at the effective date of this ordinance may be occupied by a single
family dwelling provided the yard requirements of this section are complied
with.



B.   Yards:



(1)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



(2)   The side yard for single family dwellings and duplexes shall be a
minimum of five (5) feet, except on a corner lot the street side yard for all
buildings shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet.  Principal buildings other
than single family dwellings and duplexes shall have a minimum side yard of
ten (10) feet.  A garage attached to a dwelling may be located five (5) feet
from the side lot line but not a street line.



(3)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of 10 feet.  A garage attached to
a dwelling may be located five (5) feet from an alley line.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit for all dwelling
units; and one additional parking space is required for each renter in a
rooming or boarding house; and for all other permitted uses as required in
Section 170.34.



170.19   R-6, MOBILE HOME PARKS.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the R-6 District is to establish
and preserve a mobile home park free from other uses except those which are
both compatible with and convenient to the residents within the District.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Mobile Homes.



B.   Accessory buildings and uses.



3.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Area:  Any parcel of land used for a trailer park shall have a total
area of not less than 2 acres.  The trailers, mobile homes, and accessory
buildings shall not occupy in aggregate more than a 35 percent of the total
area of the land so used.



B.   Area Requirements:  All trailers, mobile structures, or accessory
structures shall be located not less than 50 feet from the nearest lot line,
except such lot line that is the boundary of a commercial or industrial
district, in which case such minimum distance shall not be less than 20 feet.



C.   Lot Area.  Each lot so used within a trailer park shall contain not
less than 3,000 sq. ft. for each trailer or dwelling unit.



D.   Lot Width - 30 feet.



E.   Yard Requirements.



(1)   The distance between the curb line of any public street or highway
and the front or side of a mobile home shall not be less than 25 feet.



(2)   Rear yard, 25 feet.



(3)   Side yard, 5 feet.



4.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two parking spaces per mobile home.



5.   Mobile Home Parks.  It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to begin the construction and/or operation of a mobile home park
within the City of Carroll without the owner or lessee first having obtained
a permit therefore as provided in this chapter and a license to operate and
maintain a mobile home park from the Iowa State Department of Health.  No
person, firm, or corporation shall construct, expand, remodel, or make
alterations to the sanitary facilities in a mobile home park within the State
of Iowa without first obtaining a permit therefore from the State Department
of Health.



6.   Application for Mobile Home Park Permit.  The application for a
permit to operate a mobile home park shall be filed on a form furnished by
the City with the City Public Works Administrator who shall present the
application to the City Council for consideration at the first regular
meeting following the filing of said application.  The application shall
state the name or names of the attendant or attendants to be in active charge
of the mobile home park and his or their hours of duty, and be accompanied by
a plat and other documents showing the following information:



A.   A legal description of the mobile home park area.



B.   The area dimensions and boundaries of the mobile home park site,
including elevations and all details of the water and sewage systems,
locations, including the site of water and sewer lines, etc.



C.   Location, size, and horizontal separation and type of materials used
for the proposed water and sewer lines is required.  A detailed typical
sectional drawing is required of a water and sewer connection.



D.   The location and termination of storm sewer and/or catch-basins.



E.   The number, location, size, and designated use of all unit spaces.



F.   The location, width, and type of surface material for roadways and
walkways.



G.   Information relating to recreational facilities.



H.   Information relating to fire protection facilities.



I.   Outside lighting plan.



J.   The location of service buildings, if provide, and any other proposed
structures, including storage buildings and garbage or trash collection
stations.



K.   Owner has to have a permit to construct from the Iowa State
Department of Health prior to construction for public water supply, sewage,
or solid waste system.



7.   Permit Requirements.



A.   All mobile home parks shall be well drained.  A storm sewer drainage
plan shall be submitted to and approved by the City Engineer.  Any storm
sewers to be constructed shall be constructed in accordance with City
specifications.



B.   All roads within the park shall be hard surfaced, and easily
accessible to all mobile homes, and adequately lighted.



C.   No greater number of mobile homes shall be allowed than there are
unit spaces available.



D.   Each water and sewer service shall be installed in compliance with
all applicable codes, the City of Carroll, and Iowa State Department of
Health.



E.   All gas piping and plumbing shall meet the requirements of the most
recent issue of the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Iowa and
the City of Carroll.



F.   For all dependent mobile home parks, facilities must be provided for
bathing, washing, laundry, restroom, and garbage disposal areas.



8.   Approval of Application.  The City Council shall consider said
application and if found satisfactory shall instruct the City Clerk, upon
payment of the permit fee, to issue a mobile home park license and retain a
record thereof in his office.



9.   Mobile Home Park Permit Fee.  The permit fee for a mobile home park
shall be $30.00.



10.   Suspension of a Mobile Home Park Permit.  Any mobile home park
permit issued under this chapter shall be suspended by the City Council if
the operator thereof fails within 24 hours after notification to maintain the
park in accordance with the requirements necessary to obtain a permit.



11.   Inspection.  Any officer of the City of Carroll shall have
authority to enter and inspect, at any reasonable time, any facility
permitted hereunder.



12.   Revocation of Permit.  The conviction of any person, firm, or
corporation for violation of this chapter or any other chapter of the City of
Carroll or statutes of the State of Iowa involving moral turpitude shall
automatically revoke any permit issued under the terms hereof.



13.   Permit Application Forms.  Application for an annual license to
operate and maintain a mobile home park within the corporate limits of the
City of Carroll shall be filed on the forms as prescribed by the Iowa State
Department of Health with the Board of Health of the City of Carroll.



170.20   R-7, ONE AND TWO FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “R-7” District is to
establish low density residential areas with single family and two family
dwellings beyond the corporate limits but within the extended area set out in
the 28E Agreement between the City of Carroll and Carroll County for Zoning,
platting and building code control.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses:  The building or premises shall be used
only for the following purposes:



A.   Single Family detached Dwelling.



B.   Two Family Dwellings.



C.   Public parks, playgrounds and recreational areas.



D.   Public utilities and public service installations and facilities.



E.   Cemeteries of 10 acres or more in size.



F.   Churches, chapels, or parish houses located not less than 20 feet
from any side lot line in any “R” District.



G.   Any building or structure occupied or used for nursery, elementary,
junior high or high schools, public libraries, and similar public cultural
uses located not less than 30 feet from any side lot line.



H.   Sale of nursery and greenhouse products.



I.   Railroad right-of-way and trackage, not including switching, storage,
terminal facilities or freight yards.



J.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use,
including outdoor swimming pools.



K.   Private garages and parking areas.



3.   Special Uses:  The following special uses are permitted in the
“R-7” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter.



A.   Home occupations.



B.   When granted Special Use Permits by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission:



(1)   Sanitary landfills, in accordance with county and state regulations
except that no sanitary landfill shall be operated within 1,320 feet of any
“R” District.



(2)   Removal and loading of minerals, sand or gravel, including
equipment, buildings or structures for screening, crushing, mixing, washing,
or storage located not less than 500 feet from any "R" District and suitably
distant or properly screened from any designated Scenic Highway.



(3)   Privately operated country clubs, golf courses, marinas or docking
facilities, guest ranches, swimming clubs, riding stables, lakes, resorts,
and similar recreational uses provided that any principal or accessory
building in connection therewith shall be located above flood hazard
elevation and not less than 200 feet from any lot in an “R” District.



(4)   Airports and landing fields.



(5)   Transformer stations and booster or pressure regulating stations,
without service yard or storage.



(6)   Mobile home parks subject to the following conditions:



a.   The mobile home park shall be located on a parcel of ground at least
five acres in size and each boundary line of the park shall be at least 200
feet from any residential structure located outside the park unless separated
therefrom by a natural or artificial barrier.



b.   The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded to
insure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.



c.   Each mobile home space shall be large enough to provide a distance of
10 feet between any trailer or structure on the space and the lot line, a
front yard of 15 feet and a rear yard of 10 feet.



d.   All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not less than 20
feet in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public street.



e.   Overall density shall not be greater than the lot area per family
specified within the district.



f.   All driveways and walkways in the park shall be hard surfaced and
lighted at night.



g.   Each park shall provide service buildings to house such toilet,
bathing and other sanitary facilities and such laundry facilities as may be
prescribed.



h.   An electrical outlet supplying at least 110 volts shall be provided
for each trailer space.



i.   Adequate sanitary facilities and supply of pure water shall be
provided to each mobile home space.



j.   Each park shall comply with the regulations set forth by competent
authority.



4.   The following minimum or maximum requirements shall be observed:



A.   Lot area:  The minimum lot area for a single-family dwelling shall
be 80,000 square feet.  Structures containing more than one dwelling unit
shall be located on a lot having a minimum area of 60,000 square feet for
each unit.  Larger lots may be required where results of percolation tests
indicate the need for a larger disposal field.  Such tests shall be
submitted to the County Board of Health prior to construction.



B.   Lot Width:  210 feet minimum



C.   Front Yard:  80 feet minimum along state and federal roads




60 feet minimum along other public roads



D.   Side Yards:  20 feet minimum



E.   Rear Yards:  100 feet minimum



F.   The maximum height for any principal structure shall be two and
one-half stories or 30 feet and no accessory structure shall exceed one story
or 15 feet in height except as provided in Section 170.32(1).



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit for single family and
two family dwellings; and for all other permitted uses as required in Section
170.34.



170.21   RB-1, RESIDENTIAL-BUSINESS TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “RB-1” District is to
provide for a transitional zone where residences and certain types of
business may exist in a mutually compatible environment.  This zone will be
characterized by a low volume of traffic and limited outdoor advertising to
protect the residences within and abutting the district, without restricting
the growth of low intensity commercial uses.  This district is basically
designed as a buffer between strictly residential and commercial areas.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Business service such as banks, including drive-in teller service,
insurance, real estate, office buildings.



B.   Professional office buildings, medical and dental clinics, day care
centers, or similar uses.



C.   Equipment sales and services such as radio or television shops,
business machines, musical instrument shops, sewing machine sales and service
shops.



D.   Retail stores such as books and stationary shops, jewelry, apparel
shops, bakery shops, candy shops, florist shops, gift shops, household goods,
hardware store, variety stores and drug stores.



E.   Art goods and bric-a-brac shops.



F.   Personal services such as barber shops, beauty salons, reducing
salons, photographic studios, clothes, cleaning and launderettes and shoe
repair shops.



G.   Restaurants and cafes, ice cream parlors, soda fountains and dairy
stores.  The serving or selling of alcoholic beverages at restaurants or
cafes is permitted where such use is incidental to the operation.  However,
taverns or night clubs where the serving or selling of alcoholic beverages is
the primary use is not permitted.



H.   Multi-Family Dwelling, lodging and rooming houses.



I.   Single family detached dwellings, provided the minimum width for any
building elevation shall not be less than twenty (20) feet.



J.   Two family dwellings.



K.   Churches, convents, rectories, or manses.



L.   Schools and colleges, public and private.



M.   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent
homes, or other similar institutions.



N.   Clubs or lodges.



O.   Funeral homes and Mortuaries.



P.   Public or private parks, playgrounds, historical sites, golf courses,
and other outdoor recreational facilities which are commonly, but not
necessarily, operated on a non-profit basis with hours of operation between
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; however, amusement parks, golf driving ranges, golf
miniature putting courses, normally operated for profit and employing
manufactured or constructed facilities of an unnatural or non-environmental
design shall be excluded.



Q.   Public buildings, libraries, community buildings, or other similar
public buildings.



R.   Cemeteries.



S.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal use,
including outdoor swimming pools.



T.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“RB-1” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities.



B.   Schools and Churches.



C.   Recreational facilities for profit including lighted facilities, but
only with hours of operation between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.



D.   Automobile service stations.



E.   Home Occupations.



F.   Grocery (neighborhood and convenience) stores which front on either a
collector or arterial street with hours of operation between 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m.



G.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  The minimum lot area shall be 4,800 sq. ft. for a single
family dwelling, 7,000 sq. ft. for a two family dwelling, and 8,000 sq. ft.
or 2,000 sq. ft. per dwelling unit, whichever is greater, for a multiple
family dwelling. The minimum lot area for a business lot shall be 5,000 sq.
ft.



B.   Yard Requirements:



Front Yard:  Building setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



Side Yard:  The side yard for single family dwellings and duplexes shall be
a minimum of five (5) feet, except on a corner lot the street side yard for
all buildings shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet.  Principal buildings
other than business buildings adjacent to other business buildings, single
family dwellings, and duplexes shall have a minimum side yard of ten (10)
feet.  A garage attached to a dwelling may be located five (5) feet from the
side lot line, but not a street line.  Business lots adjoining other
business lots shall have a minimum side yard of five (5) feet.



Rear Yard:  The rear yard for a residential dwelling shall be a minimum of
ten (10) feet.  A garage attached to a dwelling may be located five (5) feet
from an alley line.  The rear yard for a business building shall be twenty
(20) feet.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements:  Two per unit for all dwelling
units; and one additional parking space is required for each renter in a
rooming or boarding house; and for all other permitted uses as required in
Section 170.34.



170.22   R-8, RESDENTIAL-AGRICULTURAL TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “R-8” District is to
provide for a transitional zone where single family and two family dwellings
now located beyond the corporate limits of Carroll, but within the extended
area set out in the 28E Agreement between the City of Carroll and Carroll
County, may continue to exist and be rebuilt if damaged to any extent, but
not to allow increases in the number of dwellings and not to allow expansion
of the current dwellings or their accessory structures.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Any principal use permitted within the “R-1” or “R-7”
Districts.



B.   No building permits shall be issued for residential dwelling
construction within the R-8 District for new construction.  However,
existing residential dwellings and accessory structures may be repaired or
replaced but may not be increased in square footage from that in place at the
effective date of the Ordinance adopting this R-8 District zoning
classification.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“R-8” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   Any special use permitted within the “R-1” or “R-7”
Districts, and on the terms set forth therein.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  same as the “R-1” District



B.   Yard Requirements:  same as the “R-1” District



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Same as the “R-1” District.



170.23   P.U.D. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The “P.U.D.” District is intended and
designed to provide a means of the development or redevelopment of tracts of
ground on a unit basis, allowing greater flexibility and diversification of
land uses and building locations than the conventional single lot method
provided in other sections of this ordinance.  It is further the intent of
this section that the basic principles of good land use planning, including
an orderly and graded relationship between various types of uses, be
maintained and that the zoning standards as set forth in this ordinance and
statutes concerning light and air, recreation and open space, and building
coverage by preserved.  It is the intent of the City of Carroll that the
planned residential development be encouraged for areas of the community, as
appropriate, in particular those areas of the community now undeveloped and
those areas which in time would be annexed to the City.



2.   Permitted Uses.  Normal permitted uses are those of a residential
character including single-family (detached or attached), two family and/or
multiple family dwellings, and the usual accessory buildings, such as
garages, storage space, maintenance structures, and buildings for
recreational purposes.  Commercial uses, limited to those specifically
approved by the City Council, are permitted provided that such uses are
primarily for the service and convenience of the residents of the
development.  Such commercial users are encouraged to be located within the
residential buildings, however, if such uses are proposed to be contained
within a separate freestanding structure:



A.   It must be so designed to reflect the residential character of the
development; and,



B.   It may contain an identification sign no more than four square feet,
placed flush on one wall and generally not observable from the periphery of
the development. 



No building permit for a free-standing commercial structure will be issued
and/or no certificate of occupancy for commercial use of any residential
structure will be issued until 60 percent of the development's dwelling units
have been issued a certificate of occupancy.



3.   Minimum Requirements.



A.   Open Space Requirements.  A major portion of any PUD is its open
space.  The desirability is closely tied to the integration of open space
with the total development.  A minimum of 20 percent of the land area shall
be retained for common open air recreational uses and other usable open
space.  Quality standards acknowledge the separate and multiple functions of
open space, active recreation, passive recreation and preservation of natural
site amenities.  In designing a PUD, consideration shall be given to such
functions.  The term open spaces shall not include space devoted to streets
and parking.  All land in the PUD indicated as common land and common open
space shall be maintained by one of the following methods:



(1)   If the land is deeded to a Homeowner's Association (HOA), the
developer shall file a declaration of covenants and restrictions that will
govern the association, to be submitted with the application for the PUD. 
The provisions shall include, but not be limited to:



a.   The HOA must be set up before the dwellings are sold.



b.   Membership must be mandatory for each home buyer and any successive
buyer.



c.   The open space restrictions must be permanent.



d.   The HOA must be responsible for liability insurance, taxes, and the
maintenance of recreational and other facilities.



(2)   All or any part of the open space system may be conveyed to the City
of Carroll by joint agreement of the developer and City.  Such conveyance
may be by dedication or easement.



B.   Yard Requirements.  The minimum lot and yard requirements of the
conventional zoning districts in which the development is located shall not
apply, except that minimum yards specified in the conventional district for
suitable screening or buffering shall be provided around the boundary of the
development.  In the absence of any appropriate physical barrier, the
Council may require open space or screening be located along all or a portion
of the development boundary.  While the minimum yard requirements of the
conventional zoning district in which the development is located do not
apply, a minimum distance of ten feet between buildings shall be observed.



C.   Maximum Density.  The maximum number of dwelling units permitted in
a “P.U.D.” development district shall be determined by dividing the net
development area by the following maximum densities:



 


Zoning Classification

 

Maximum Density




R-1

 

7,500 sq. ft. per unit




R-2

 

Single family detached dwelling unit - 5,600 sq. ft. per unit; All other
units - 3,700 sq. ft. per unit




R-3

 

Single family detached dwelling unit - 4,500 sq. ft. per unit; All other
units -2,800 sq. ft. per unit




R-4

 

Single family detached dwelling unit -3,600 sq. ft. per unit; All other units
- 1,900 sq. ft. per unit




R-5

 

Single family detached dwelling unit - 3,600 sq. ft. per unit; All other
units - 1,500 sq. ft. per unit





Net development area shall be determined by subtracting from the gross
development area any area proposed for streets.




If the development contains two or more zoning district classifications, the
number of dwelling units permitted shall be determined by adding the maximum
dwelling units allowable for each proportional part, but the dwelling units
may be located within the development irrespective of the conventional zoning
district classification of any particular area.  However, if the development
area includes land zoned “F-1”, maximum of thirty (30) percent of such
land may be used in determining the number of development units that can be
built within the entire development.  No dwelling shall be placed on land
zoned “F-1” in a “P.U.D.” development.



D.   Tract Size.  The minimum size tract for a P.U.D. is two acres.



E.   Height Limitations.  There shall be no maximum height requirement. 
However, height shall be regulated to the extent that it relates to the
proposed development and to the general area within which the development is
proposed to be located.



F.   Other Considerations.  A number of major factors should undergo
evaluation as a portion of design standards.  These include:



(1)   Natural drainage areas shall be retained as appropriate and, if
necessary, improved.



(2)   Due consideration shall be given to preserving natural site
amenities and minimizing the disturbance to the natural environment.



(3)   Existing trees shall be preserved wherever possible.  The location
of the trees is to be considered in designing building locations, underground
services, and paved areas.



(4)   If the development includes flood plain areas, they shall be
preserved as permanent open spaces.



(5)   Due consideration shall be given to the natural topography and major
grade change shall be avoided.  If the development includes hillsides and
slopes, special evaluation shall be given to geological conditions, erosion,
and topsoil loss.  If unfavorable development conditions exist, the City
Council may restrict clearing, cutting, filling, or other substantial changes
in the natural conditions of the affected area.



4.   Supplementary and Bulk Regulations.  No part of an area required for
the purposes of complying with the provisions of this section shall be
included as an area required for another lot.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two parking spaces per single unit
dwelling and two parking spaces per unit for two or more unit dwellings; and
for all other permitted uses as required in Section 170.34.



6.   Review Application Procedure.  The reviewing and processing of any
proposed P.U.D. shall be in two steps.



A.   Pre-Application Conference.  Prior to any application for P.U.D.
plan approval, contact shall be made with the Planning Division, Department
of Community Development, for a pre-application conference.  It is advised
that the conference occur prior to an extensive financial expenditure on the
part of the developer.  The purpose of the meeting is to inform appropriate
City Staff on the proposed development and to inform the developer about
various City ordinances, applicability of the proposed development, timing of
procedure, and any other pertinent information appropriate to the proposal. 
To this end, the developer must outline the proposal in schematic and/or
written form for discussion purposes.  Area of consideration include, but
are not limited to:



(1)   General discussion of project, building types, timing of development.



(2)   Proposed land uses and density ranges.



(3)   Conformance to Land Use Policy Plan.



(4)   Utility and street arrangements and patterns.



(5)   Proposed open space and recreational facilities and review of
natural amenities to be preserved such as hill forms, wet lands, wooded
areas, and water courses.  Subsequent to the meeting, the developer will be
furnished, as appropriate, with any comments regarding the meeting including
recommendations to inform and assist the developer in the processing of the
proposed plan.  No oral, written or schematically illustrated statements
made during the course of the conference shall be held as legally binding. 
The Carroll City Council is the only authorized approval body, upon
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.



B.   Application for P.U.D. Plan Approval.  After the pre-application
conference, application for P.U.D. plan approval may be made to the City
Council on forms obtainable from the City Clerk.  The City Council shall
refer the application to the City Planning and Zoning Commission for review
and recommendations.  Such recommendations shall be forwarded to the City
Council within 60 days of referral.  Upon written request and approval by
the City Council, an additional 60 days may be granted for a recommendation.
All technical assistance to the Planning and Zoning Commission on the
application shall be coordinated by the City Staff.  The P.U.D. application
shall include the following written and visual materials:



(1)   A written statement concerning the proposed development, including
the nature of the project, proposed land uses, building types, density
ranges, conformance with the Land Use Policy Plan, description of the open
space and recreational system, and the form of organization proposed to own
and maintain the common open space.



(2)   A site development plan containing the following:



a.   The proposed name of the area and the name(s) and address of the
applicant(s).



b.   Legal description of the total site being developed along with the
seal of the registered land surveyor making the plat.



c.   Total acreage and the location of the proposed land to be developed.



d.   The location and size of the land to be retained as common open space.



e.   Existing and proposed contours at two foot intervals.



f.   The existing and proposed public and/or private street and sidewalk
system.



g.   The location and size of water and sanitary sewer lines.



h.   Provisions for the disposition of storm water or surface runoff.



i.   A statement of quantitative data including total number and types of
structures to be constructed on the site, individual parcel sizes, lot
coverage, gross and net residential densities, areas reserved for open space
and recreation, and off-street parking areas.



j.   Projected schedule for development (construction schedule).



(3)   Site supporting information to include as, appropriate:



a.   Any water course areas.



b.   Unique natural features.



c.   Unique historical sites.



d.   General vegetation cover.



e.   Soil suitability.



(4)   Other information to be submitted with application:



a.   A landscape plan delineating the proposed treatment of the site. 
The plan shall be supplemented with a written “Statement of Intent” of
the plan and how the intent is to be realized.



b.   Representative floor plans and exterior elevations of proposed
structures and buildings.



c.   Percent of residential and commercial (business) development in the
Planning Unit Development.



d.   Evidence that the developer is capable of successfully completing the
proposed development.



e.   Evidence that the proposed development is compatible with the
surrounding area.



f.   The substance of any covenants, grants, easements, or any other
restrictions proposed to be imposed upon the land or building(s), including
easements for public utilities.



7.   Processing Procedure.  The processing for P.U.D. approval shall be
in accordance with the Subdivision Chapter of this Code.



8.   Preliminary Plan Referral to Planning and Zoning Commission.  The
application, accompanying evidence and preliminary plan shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for study and report after a public
hearing.  The Commission shall review the conformity of the proposed
development with the standards of the Comprehensive Plan and with recognized
principals of civic design, land use planning, and landscape architecture. 
After a public hearing, the Commission may approve or disapprove the
preliminary plan and request for rezoning as submitted, or require that the
applicant amend the plan to preserve the intent and purpose of this ordinance
to promote public health, safety, and general welfare.



A.   If the proposed development includes common land which will not be
dedicated to the City, and the proposed development will not be held in
single ownership, proposed by-laws of a homeowner's association fully
defining the functions, responsibilities and operating procedures of the
association shall be submitted.  The proposed by-laws shall include but not
be limited to provisions:



(1)   Automatically extending membership in the association to all owners
of dwelling units within the development.



(2)   Limiting the uses of the common property to those permitted by the
final development plan.



(3)   Granting to each owner of a dwelling unit within the development the
right to the use and enjoyment of the common property.



(4)   Placing the responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
common property in the association.



(5)   Giving every owner of a dwelling unit voting rights in the
association.



(6)   If the development will combine rental and for sale dwelling units,
stating the relationship between the renters and the homeowner’s
association and the rights renters shall have to the use of the common land.



B.   Performance bond or bonds approved by the City legal department and
Director of Finance in an amount not less than the estimated cost of the
bonded improvements, which bond or bonds shall insure to the City that the
dedicated public streets and utilities, including sewers, located therein and
other common development facilities shall be completed by the developer
within the time specified on the final development plan.



C.   Covenant to run with the land, in favor of the City and all persons
having a proprietary interest in any portion of the development premises,
that the owner or owners of the land or their successors in interest will
maintain all interior streets, parking areas, sidewalks, parks and plantings
which have not been dedicated to the City of Carroll in compliance with the
ordinances of the City of Carroll, Iowa, and the final development plan as
approved by the City Council, which shall be recorded in the office of the
Carroll County Recorder.



D.   Additional easements or agreements required by the Council at the
time of preliminary plan approval.



The final development plan and required documents shall be reviewed by the
Commission, for compliance with the standards of this section and substantial
compliance with the preliminary plan.  The Commission's recommendations and
report on the final development plan shall be referred to the Council.  The
Council shall review the final development plan and approve it if it complies
with the standards of this section and is in substantial compliance with the
preliminary development plan.



9.   Changes in Approved Plan.  Changes of a minor nature may be made in
an approved plan by the City Staff.  However, any proposed change of a major
consequence is only authorized by City Council upon recommendation by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.  Major changes shall include:



A.   Non-conformance to the original approved statement of intent;



B.   Any increase in density, numbers, and/or types of dwelling units;



C.   Non-conformance to the original approved overall statement of intent
of the landscape plan;



D.   Any change in maximum height or change in location of structures or
buildings.



If any proposed change is questionable as to whether it is a major or minor
consequence, such determination shall be made by the City Council.  A P.U.D.
plan runs with the land and is binding on any and all interested parties from
and after the time a P.U.D. is approved.  No permits will be issued in an
area that has been rezoned on application of owners representing that a
P.U.D. will be submitted until the P.U.D. has been submitted and approved.



170.24   B-1, LIGHT BUSINESS DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the B-1 District is to establish
and preserve commercial districts which act as a buffer or transition between
residential districts and general and central business districts, and which
provide for the needs, convenience, and general benefit to the residents of
the locality.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   Business service such as banks, including drive-in teller service,
insurance, real estate, office buildings.



B.   Professional office buildings, medical and dental clinics, day care
centers, or similar uses.



C.   Equipment sales and services such as radio or television shops,
business machines, musical instrument shops, sewing machine sales and service
shops.



D.   Retail stores such as books and stationary shops, jewelry, apparel
shops, bakery shops, candy shops, florist shops, gift shops, household goods,
hardware store, variety stores and drug stores.



E.   Art goods and bric-a-brac shops.



F.   Personal services such as barber shops, beauty salons, reducing
salons, photographic studios, clothes, cleaning and launderettes and shoe
repair shops.



G.   Grocery, delicatessen, and meat market, but shall not include
supermarkets.



H.   Restaurants and cafes, ice cream parlors, soda fountains and dairy
stores.  The serving or selling of alcoholic beverages at restaurants or
cafes is permitted where such use is incidental to the operation.  However,
taverns or night clubs where the serving or selling of alcoholic beverages is
the primary use is not permitted.



I.   Multi-Family Dwelling, lodging and rooming houses.



J.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“B-1” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth hereafter:



A.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities.



B.   Schools and churches.



C.   Lighted recreational facilities.



D.   Automobile service stations.



E.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  5,000 sq. ft. minimum



B.   Yard Requirements:



Front Yard:  Building setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



Side Yard:  The side yard shall be a minimum of 5 feet, except in the case
of a commercial use lot adjoining a residential district, then the side yard
shall be a minimum of 10 feet.



Rear Yard:  The rear yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements:  Two per unit for all dwelling
units; and one additional parking space is required for each renter in a
rooming or boarding house; and for all other permitted uses as required in
Section 170.34.



170.25   B-2, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “B-2” District is to
establish and preserve a general business district, providing a wide variety
of goods and services for the City.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   All principal permitted uses in the “B-1” District except
multi-family dwellings, boarding, lodging and rooming houses.



B.   Accessory buildings and uses.



C.   Apartments located above the first floor of a business.



D.   Automobile and truck sales or repairing.



E.   Automobile service stations.



F.   Banks, Savings and Loans, and Finance Companies.



G.   Business, general retail.



H.   Churches, Chapels and Mortuaries.



I.   Day Care Centers.



J.   Department Stores.



K.   Electrical, television and radio repair.



L.   Grocery Stores.



M.   Hotels and Motels.



N.   Night Clubs and Taverns.



O.   Office, general and professional including medical laboratories,
clinics, health spaces, rehabilitation centers, real estate brokers and
insurance agents.



P.   Parking Garages and/or Lots.



Q.   Personal Service Shops.



R.   Printing and Newspaper Houses.



S.   Public Utility and public service installations and facilities.



T.   Restaurants, cafes and coffee shops.



U.   Sundry shops and stores.



V.   Theaters, auditoriums and other places of indoor assembly.



W.   Vocational centers, medical and professional institutions.



X.   Warehouses and other storage completely enclosed within a building.



Y.   Wholesaling only in connection with retail and service businesses.



Z.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“B-2” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   Multi-family Dwellings.



B.   Mortuaries.



C.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission. 



D.   Lumber and building supply yards.



E.   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops.



F.   Carpenter and cabinet shops.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  5,000 sq. ft. minimum.



B.   Yard Requirements:



Front Yard - None.



Side Yard - None, except in the case of a commercial use lot adjoining a
residential district, then the side yard shall be a minimum of 10 feet.



Rear Yard - None, except in the case of a commercial use lot adjoining a
residential district, then the rear yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit for all dwelling
units; and, one additional parking space is required for each renter in a
rooming or boarding house; and for all other permitted uses as required in
Section 170.34.



170.26   B-3, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “B-3” District is to
establish a Central Business District for a variety of retail establishments,
government and professional offices, and places of entertainment in a setting
conducive to and safe for a high volume of automotive and pedestrian
traffic.  This district differs from the “B-2” District in that no
off-street parking is required (except for multi-family dwellings) thereby
creating and maintaining a concentrated commercial center.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   All principal permitted uses in the “B-2” District.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“B-3” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   All special uses permitted in the “B-2” District.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  None



B.   Yard Requirements:



Front Yard - None.



Side Yard - None.



Rear Yard - None.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  None, except for dwelling units,
which shall provide for two (2) parking spaces per dwelling units.



170.27   I-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “I-1” District is to
establish and preserve a light industrial district for limited commercial and
industrial uses.



2.   Principal Uses.  A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:



A.   Warehouse type building for commercial or industrial storage,
completely enclosed within a building.



B.   Lumber and building supply yards.



C.   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops.



D.   Automobile repair shops.



E.   Carpenter and cabinet shops.



F.   Any business, professional, retail, or service establishment
permitted in the “B-1” or “B-2” Districts.



G.   Other compatible uses as determined by the Board of Adjustment after
consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in I-1,
“Light Industrial District” only in accordance with the provisions set
forth hereinafter:



A.   Multi-family dwellings.



B.   Boarding, lodging and rooming houses.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot area:  5,000 sq. ft. minimum.



B.   Yard Requirements:



Front Yard:  Building setback shall be minimum of 20 feet.



Side Yard:  The side yard shall be a minimum of 5 feet, except in the case
of an industrial use lot adjoining a residential district, then the side yard
shall be a minimum of 10 feet.



Rear Yard:  The rear yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet.



C.   Any open storage of supplies or materials or contractor’s equipment
and/or supplies, or manufacturer's raw or finished products shall be enclosed
by means of a fence or wall for the purpose of providing visual privacy. 
Said fence or wall shall not exceed six feet in height, and may be
constructed of masonry or concrete, wood, or chain link fencing designed to
be opaque.  Any fencing shall comply with Section 170.33.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Two per unit for all dwelling
units; and one additional parking space is required for each renter in a
rooming, lodging or boarding house; and for all other permitted uses as
required in Section 170.34.



170.28   I-2, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “I-2” District is to
create and preserve an area for industrial related uses of such nature that
they require isolation from other kinds of land uses.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  A building premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:



A.   The manufacturing, assembling, compounding, packaging, processing, or
treatment of products or raw materials.



B.   The storage of raw materials to be used in production, goods in
process, or manufactured items.



C.   Warehouse buildings and commercial or industrial storage completely
within an enclosed building.



D.   Cartage and express facilities or railroad and truck freight
terminals.



E.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities
including repair and storage facilities.



F.   Asphalt (hot-mix) plants, bulk plants and concrete plants.



G.   Large equipment sales and repair.



H.   All principal permitted uses of the “I-1” District.



I.   All other medium and heavy industrial uses as determined by the
Commission.



3.   Special Uses.  The following special uses are permitted in the
“I-2” District only in accordance with the provisions set forth
hereinafter:



A.   Sanitary landfills.



B.   Sewage lagoons.



C.   Stockyards and/or rendering plants.



D.   Open storage of new or used building supplies and materials.



E.   Open storage of contractor’s equipment and/or supplies.



F.   Junk yards and automotive wrecking yards.



4.   Minimum Requirements.  The following minimum requirements shall be
observed:



A.   Lot Area:  5,000 sq. ft. minimum.



B.   Yard Requirements:  None, except when abutting a residential
district or an arterial street the setback shall be 40 feet.



Side Yard - None, except when abutting a residential district or an arterial
street the setback shall be 40 feet.



Rear Yard - None, except when abutting a residential district or an arterial
street the setback shall be 40 feet.



C.   An open storage of supplies or materials, or contractor’s equipment
and/or supplies, or manufacturer’s raw or finished products shall be
enclosed by means of a fence or wall for the purposes of providing visual
privacy.  Said fence or wall shall not exceed six feet in height, and may be
constructed of masonry or concrete, wood, or chain link fencing designed to
be opaque.  Any fencing shall comply with Section 170.33.



5.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  As required in Section 170.34.



170.29   F-1, FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT.



1.   Statement of Intent.  The intent of the “F-1” District is to
establish and preserve areas which are susceptible to flooding.



2.   Principal Permitted Uses.  In the “F-1” District, no building,
structure, or other land use shall be erected or used except for one or more
of the following uses:



A.   Flood control and irrigation uses and structures erected in
connection with these uses.



B.   Parks, playgrounds, golf course, and other similar recreational
facilities.



C.   Public utility and public service installations and facilities
excluding business offices, repair and storage facilities.



D.   Upon a showing that measures have or will be taken for adequate flood
protection, the City Engineer may permit the erection of buildings and
structures in the flood plain zone.



3.   Designations of Major Flood Channels and Areas of Special Flood
Hazard.  Areas identified by the Federal Insurance Administration on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map for the City of Carroll, Iowa, dated March 19, 1990,
and any revision thereto, shall be designated as major flood channels and
areas of special flood hazard.  These areas shall be zoned F-1.



4.   Adoption of Regulatory Floodway.  The regulatory floodways and
elevations identified by the Federal Insurance Administration are hereby
adopted.



A.   In the regulatory floodways, no development or encroachment
(including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other
development), which will result in any increase in flood levels during the
base flood discharge shall be permitted.



5.   Revision of Flood Channels and Areas of Special Flood Hazards.  The
City Engineer may revise the elevations for flood channels and areas of
special flood hazards not identified by the FIA based on areas computation,
rainfall, water flow, surface profile and such other matters as may come to
his knowledge and attention.



6.   Inclusion of Flood Channel and Areas of Special Flood Hazards.  The
flood channels and areas of special flood hazards established in this article
shall be designated by appropriate symbols on the official zoning map.



170.30   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.



1.   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to allow and encourage the
safe, effective and efficient use of small wind energy systems; identify
locations in areas of the City which would be least adversely impacted by the
visual, aesthetic, and safety implications of their siting; and enhance the
ability of the providers of wind energy services to provide such services to
the community quickly, efficiently, and effectively.



2.   General Regulations.



A.   General:  wind energy conversion systems shall be allowed as a
special use accessory to a permitted use in all zoning districts other than
residential zoning districts.



B.   Prohibited:  commercial wind energy conversion systems are
prohibited within the City and the Two-Mile 28-E Agreement Area.



C.   Number of systems per property:  no property shall contain more than
one wind energy conversion system.



D.   Permit required:  all wind energy conversion systems require a
special use permit to be obtained from the Board of Adjustment prior to site
grading and installation.  The Board of Adjustment can revoke a special
permit at any time if the requirements set forth in this ordinance and/or any
conditions imposed by the Board of Adjustment are not met.  The Board of
Adjustment will revoke the special use permit of an abandoned wind energy
conversion system.



E.   Insurance:  the owner/operator of a wind energy conversion system
unit must demonstrate adequate liability insurance.



F.   FAA Regulations:  wind energy conversion systems must comply with
applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals for
installations close to airports.  The applicant has the responsibility of
determining applicable FAA regulations and must provide evidence of securing
the necessary approvals.



G.   Maintenance:  all wind energy conversion systems shall be properly
maintained in operational condition at all times, subject to reasonable
maintenance and repair outages.  The owner of any wind energy conversion
system deemed unsafe by the zoning official or his/her designee shall repair
the structure to meet all federal, state and local safety standards or remove
it within six (6) months.



3.   Bulk Regulations:



A.   Minimum Lot Size:  two (2) acre minimum lot size required for any
tower mounted wind energy conversion systems.



B.   Minimum Setback Requirements:  all wind energy conversion systems
shall require a setback of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the total system
height from any property line.



C.   Maximum Height:  the maximum height for wind energy conversion
system is eighty (80) feet.



D.   Number of Systems Allowed:  no more than one (1) wind energy system
may be placed on any parcel.



E.   Location:



(1)   Tower mounted wind energy conversion systems shall only be located
outside of any minimum building setback requirements.



(2)   No part of a wind energy conversion system shall be located within
or over drainage, utility or other established easements, or on or over
property lines.



(3)   A wind energy conversion system shall be in compliance with
guidelines of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations.



(4)   No wind energy conversion system shall be constructed within twenty
(20) feet laterally of an overhead electrical power line (excluding secondary
electrical service lines or service drops).  The setback from underground
electric distribution lines shall be at least five (5) feet.



(5)   No wind energy conversion system shall be located in a residential
zoning district.



(6)   No roof mounted wind energy conversion system will be allowed.



4.   Minimum System Design Standards.  The following standards are
required of all wind energy conversion systems and shall be deemed to be
conditions of approval for every wind energy system.



A.   Color:  the wind energy conversion system shall be white or light
gray in color.  Other neutral colors may be allowed at the discretion of the
Board of Adjustment.  The surface of the structure shall be non-reflective.



B.   Lighting:  no lights shall be installed on the tower, unless
required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).



C.   Signs:  One sign, limited to four (4) square feet, shall be posted
at or near the base of the tower.  The sign shall include a notice of no
trespassing, a warning of high voltage, and the phone number to the property
owner/operator to call in case of emergency.  Such sign shall be directly
visible from any external fencing and/or landscaping.  Brand names or
advertising associated with any installation shall not be visible from any
public right-of-way.



D.   Clearance of Blade Above Ground:  no portion of the tower mounted
wind energy conversion system shall extend within thirty (30) feet of the
ground.  No blades may extend over parking areas, driveways or sidewalks.



E.   Installation:  installation must be done by a qualified professional
and according to manufacturer’s recommendations.



F.   Noise:  the wind energy conversion system shall not exceed 65
decibels, except during short term events such as severe wind storms and
utility outages.  Maximum sound pressures will be measured from the closest
point on the closest property line.



G.   Use of Electricity Generated:  a wind energy conversion system shall
be used exclusively to supply electrical power for onsite consumption, except
that when a parcel on which a wind energy conversion system is installed also
receives electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical
power generated by the wind energy system and not presently needed for onsite
use may be used by the utility company in accordance with Section 199,
Chapter 15.11(5) of the Iowa Administrative Code.



H.   Automatic Over speed Controls:  all wind energy conversion systems
shall be equipped with manual and automatic over-speed controls to limit the
blade rotation speed to within the design limits of the wind energy
conversion system.



I.   Electromagnetic Interference:  all blades shall be constructed of a
nonmetallic substance.  No wind energy conversion system shall be installed
in any location where its proximity with existing fixed broadcast,
retransmission, or reception antenna for radio, television, or wireless phone
or other personal communication systems would produce electromagnetic
interference with signal transmission or reception.  No wind energy
conversion system shall be installed in any location along the major axis of
an existing microwave communications link where its operation is likely to
produce electromagnetic interference in the link’s operation.



J.   Interconnection:  the wind energy conversion system, if
interconnected to a utility system, shall meet the requirements for
interconnection and operation as set forth by the utility and the Iowa
Utilities Board.



K.   Wind Access Easements:  the enactment of this section does not
constitute the granting of an easement by the City.  The owner/operator
shall provide covenants, easements, or similar documentation to assure
sufficient wind to operate the wind energy conversion system unless adequate
accessibility to the wind is provided by the site.



L.   Shadow Flicker:  a shadow flicker model demonstrates that shadow
flicker shall not fall on, or in, any existing residential structure. 
Shadow flicker expected to fall on a roadway or a portion of residentially
zoned parcel may be acceptable if the flicker does not exceed thirty (30)
hours per year; and the flicker will fall more than one hundred (100) feet
from an existing residence; or the traffic volumes are less than five hundred
(500) vehicles per day on the roadway.  The shadow flicker model shall:



(1)   Map and describe within a one thousand (1,000) foot radius of the
proposed dispersed wind energy system the topography, existing residences and
location of their windows, locations of other structures, wind speeds and
directions, existing vegetation and roadways.  The model shall represent the
most probable scenarios of wind constancy, sunshine constancy, and wind
directions and speed;



(2)   Calculate the locations of shadow flicker caused by the proposed
project and the expected durations of the flicker at these locations,
calculate the total number of hours per year of flicker at all locations;



(3)   Identify problem areas where shadow flicker will interfere with
existing or future residences and roadways and describe proposed mitigation
measures, including, but not limited to, a change in sitting of the wind
energy conversion system, a change in the operation of the wind energy
conversion system, or grading or landscaping mitigation measures.



M.   Appearance:  the property owner of any wind energy system shall
maintain such system in a safe and attractive manner, including replacement
of defective parts, painting, cleaning, and other acts that may be required
for the maintenance and upkeep of the function and appearance of such a
system.  The owner shall maintain the ground upon which the system is
located in an orderly manner, such that is free of debris, tall grass and
weeds, and any structures remain quality in appearance.



5.   Abandonment.  Any wind energy system that is not operated for a
period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days shall be considered
abandoned and shall constitute a nuisance.  Within the next 180 days, after
notice from the City, the owner shall reactivate the tower or it shall be
dismantled and removed at the owner’s expense.  Removal of the system
includes the entire structure including foundations, transmission equipment
and fencing from the property.  If the abandoned wind energy system is not
removed in the specified amount of time, the City may remove it and recover
its costs from the wind energy conversion system owner or owner of the ground
upon which it is located.



6.   New Technologies.  Should new technology present itself after
construction that is more effective, efficient, and economical, the owner may
petition the City to allow the upgrade, provided that the upgrade does not
alter the conditions set forth in this chapter.



7.   Liability and Damages.  The owner/operator of a wind energy
conversion system must demonstrate adequate liability insurance.  Upon the
granting of a permit, applicant shall assume full responsibility for any and
all damages, claims, expenses, liabilities, judgments and costs of any kind,
including reasonable attorney’s fees related to or caused by the erection,
location, use, or removal of a facility, whether on public or private
property, and shall agree to hold the City harmless, indemnify and defend it
from all such liabilities incurred or judgments entered against it as a
result of the erection, location, use or removal of the facility.



8.   Engineer Certification.  Applications for wind energy conversion
systems shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind turbine
structure, including the tower, base, and footings.  An engineering analysis
of the tower showing compliance with the applicable regulations and certified
by a licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted.



9.   Utility Notification.  A wind energy conversion system shall not be
installed until evidence has been given that the utility company has been
informed of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected
customer-owned generator.



10.   Application and Approval Requirements.  Applications for a special
use permit shall be submitted with the following information:



A.   A properly completed and signed application.



B.   A statement from the applicant that the wind energy conversion system
will be installed in compliance with manufacturer’s specifications, and a
copy of the manufacturer’s specifications.



C.   A statement indicating what hazardous materials will be used or
stored on the site and how those materials will be stored.



D.   A description of the wind energy conversion system’s height and
design, including a cross section, elevation, and diagram of how the wind
energy conversion system will be anchored to the ground, prepared by a
professional engineer licensed in the State of Iowa.



E.   A site plan including the following information:



(1)   Legal description of the property



(2)   Parcel boundaries



(3)   Existing buildings



(4)   Easements



(5)   Fencing



(6)   Proposed location of wind energy conversion system



(7)   Setbacks



(8)   Travel ways



(9)   Overhead utility lines



(10)    Contour map with contours at intervals of two feet, if the general
slope is less than ten (10) percent, and at vertical intervals of five feet
if the general slope is greater than ten (10) percent.



(11)    If connection to the publicly regulated utility grid is proposed,
a copy of the contract between applicant and utility verifying the proposed
connection is acceptable, and/or other evidence making clear that the utility
is aware of the proposed connection and finds it acceptable.



(12)    Shadow flicker model.



F.   The City may require that the application and site plan be reviewed
by a City Engineer before the Board of Adjustment schedules a hearing on the
application for a special use permit.



11.   Accessory Use.  A wind energy conversion system shall only be
allowed as an accessory use to a permitted principal use.



170.31   SOLAR ENERGY STANDARDS.



1.   Permitted Accessory Use.  Active solar energy systems shall be
allowed as an accessory use in all zoning classifications where structures of
any sort are allowed, subject to certain requirements as set forth below. 
Active solar energy systems that do not meet the visibility standards in C.
below will require a special use permit, except as provided in Section
170.31(2)(B). 



A.   Height.  Active solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:



(1)   Building- or roof- mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height in any zoning district.  For purposes for height
measurement, solar energy systems other than building-integrated systems
shall be given an equivalent exception to height standards as building
mounted mechanical devices or equipment.



(2)   Ground- or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20
feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt.



B.   Set Back.  Active solar energy systems must meet the accessory
structure setback for the zoning district and primary land use associated
with the lot on which the system is located.



(1)   Roof-mounted Solar energy systems.  In addition to the building
setback, the collector surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar
energy systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building
on which the system is mounted or built, unless the collector and mounting
system has been explicitly engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and
setback standards are not violated.  Exterior piping for solar hot water
systems shall be allowed to extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a
side yard exposure.



(2)   Ground-mounted Solar energy systems.  Ground-mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the side-yard or rear setback when oriented at
minimum design tilt.



C.   Visibility.  Active solar energy systems shall be designed to blend
into the architecture of the building or be screened from routine view from
public right-of-ways other than alleys.  The color of the solar collector is
required to be consistent with other roofing materials.



(1)   Building Integrated Photovoltaic Systems.  Building integrated
photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of whether the
system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided the building
component in which the system is integrated meets all required setback, land
use or performance standards for the district in which the building is
located.



(2)   Solar Energy Systems with Mounting Devices.  Solar energy systems
using roof mounting devices or ground-mount solar energy systems shall not be
restricted if the system is not visible from the closest edge of any public
right-of-way other than an alley.  However roof-mount systems that are
visible from the nearest edge of the street frontage right-of-way shall not
have a highest finished pitch steeper than the roof pitch on which the system
is mounted, and shall be no higher than twelve (12) inches above the roof.



(3)   Coverage.  Roof or building mounted solar energy systems, excluding
building-integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access to the
south-facing or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted.  The surface
area of pole or ground mount systems shall not exceed half the building
footprint of the principal structure.



(4)   Historic Buildings.  Solar energy systems on buildings within
designated historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings
(exclusive of State or Federal historic designation) will require a special
use permit.



D.   Approved Solar Components.  Electric solar energy system components
must have a UL listing and solar hot water systems must have an SRCC rating.



E.   Plan Approval Required.  All solar energy systems shall require
administrative plan approval by the zoning official.



(1)   Plan Applications.  Plan applications for solar energy systems
shall be accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation)
drawings.  The drawings must show the location of the system on the building
or on the property for a ground-mount system, including the property lines.



a.   Pitched Roof Mounted Solar Energy Systems.  For all roof-mounted
systems other than a flat roof the elevation must show the highest finished
slope of the solar collector and the slope of the finished roof surface on
which it is mounted.



b.   Flat Roof Mounted Solar Energy Systems.  For flat roof applications
a drawing shall be submitted showing the distance to the roof edge and any
parapets on the building and shall identify the height of the building on the
street frontage side, the shortest distance of the system from the street
frontage edge of the building, and the highest finished height of the solar
collector above the finished surface of the roof.



(2)   Plan Approvals.  Applications that meet the design requirements of
this ordinance, and do not require a special use permit, shall be granted
administrative approval by the zoning official.  Plan approval does not
indicate compliance with Building Code or Electric Code.



F.   Compliance with Building Code.  All active solar energy systems
shall meet approval of local building code officials, consistent with the
State of Iowa Building Code and solar thermal systems shall comply with
HVAC-related requirements of the Electric Code.



G.   Compliance with State Electric Code.  All photovoltaic systems shall
comply with the Iowa State Electric Code.



H.   Compliance with State Plumbing Code.  Solar thermal systems shall
comply with applicable Iowa State Plumbing Code requirements.



I.   Utility Notification.  All grid-intertie solar energy systems shall
comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility. 
Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.



2.   Special Use.  The city encourages the installation of productive
solar energy systems and recognizes that a balance must be achieved between
character and aesthetic considerations and the reasonable desire of building
owners to harvest their renewable energy resources.  Where the standards in
170.31(1)(A), 170.31(1)(B), or 170.31(1)(C) cannot be met without diminishing
the minimum reasonable performance of the solar energy system, a special use
permit may be sought from the Board of Adjustment.  A special use permit
shall be granted if the standards set out in paragraph B, below are met.



A.   Minimum Performance Design Standards.  The following design
thresholds are necessary for efficient operation of a solar energy system:



(1)   Fixed-Mount Active Solar Energy Systems.  Solar energy systems must
be mounted to face within 45 degrees of south (180 degrees azimuth).



(2)   Solar Electric (photovoltaic) Systems.  Solar collectors must have
a pitch of between 20 and 65 degrees.



(3)   Solar Hot Water Systems.  Solar collectors need to be mounted at a
pitch between 40 and 60 degrees.



(4)   System Location.  The system is located where the lot or building
has a solar resource.



B.   Standards for a Special Use Permit.  A special use permit shall be
granted by the Board of Adjustment if the applicant meets the following
safety, performance and aesthetic conditions:



(1)   Aesthetic Conditions.  The solar energy system must be designed to
blend into the architecture of the building or be screened from routine view
from public right-of-ways other than alleys to the maximum extent possible
while still allowing the system to be mounted for efficient performance.



(2)   Safety Conditions.  All applicable health and safety standards are
met.



(3)   Non-Tracking Ground-Mounted Systems.  Pole-mounted or
ground-mounted active solar energy systems must meet set-back requirements.



3.   Renewable Energy Conditions for Certain Permits



A.   Condition for Rezoning or Special Use Permit.  The City may, in an
area where the local electric distribution system was installed more than
twenty years ago, or where the local electric utility has documented a
near-term need for additional distribution substation or conductor capacity,
require on-site renewable energy systems as a condition for a rezoning or a
special use permit.



(1)   The renewable energy condition may only be exercised for new
construction or major reconstruction projects.



(2)   The renewable energy condition may only be exercised for sites that
have 90% unimpeded solar or wind energy access, and for which the renewable
energy system can reasonably meet all performance standards and building code
requirements.



B.   Condition for Planned Unit Development (PUD) Approval.  The City may
require onsite renewable energy systems as a condition for approval of a PUD
permit, in order to mitigate for:



(1)   Risk to the performance of the local electric distribution system,



(2)   Increased emissions of greenhouse gases,



(3)   Other risks or effects inconsistent with the City’s Comprehensive
Plan.



170.32   HEIGHT REGULATIONS. 



In all districts no building or structure shall exceed four (4) stories or
forty-five (45) feet above the average elevation of the finished grade of the
front yard.  Buildings and structures with a height in excess of forty-five
(45) feet shall be permitted provided that the required front, side, and rear
yards are increased by one foot for each foot of additional building height
above 45 feet.




1.   Height Exceptions.  The height regulations prescribed herein shall
not apply to television, telephone, microwave and radio towers, church
spires, belfries, monuments, farm buildings, tanks, water and fire towers,
stage towers or spires, chimneys, elevator bulkheads, smoke-stacks, drilling
rigs, conveyors, flagpoles, wind energy conversion system and solar energy
standard systems (except in residential districts).



170.33   SPECIAL PROVISIONS. 



The required front, side, or rear yards of each district shall be observed
unless 50 percent or more of the lots on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets are improved with buildings, the majority of which have
observed an average yard less than that required in the district.  In cases
where the above is true, the average of the lesser yard dimensions may be
used.  However, where the lots improved with buildings are less than 40
percent of the total number of lots, including vacant lots, on one side of
the street between two intersecting streets, the required minimum yards of
the district shall be observed.




1.   A detached private garage or accessory building or structure,
including a television satellite dish, may be located, erected, or
established in a required side or rear yard of the district provided the
private garage or accessory building or structure is located not nearer than
five (5) feet to the side or rear lot lines, except when located adjacent to
an alley line, in which case it may be located not nearer than three (3) feet
to the alley line.  A private garage or accessory building or structure,
including television satellite dishes, shall not be located nearer to a
street line than the required setback for a principal building.  The
detached private garage or accessory building or structure shall not occupy
more than 35 percent of a rear yard.  A private accessory building or
structure is limited to the height of the principal building unless a greater
height is permitted as a special use permit by the Board of Adjustment.



2.   Building Projections.  Projections from buildings including eaves,
canopies, chimneys, sills, cornices, or other similar architectural features
may project or extend not more than two (2) feet into the required yard.



3.   Courts.



A.   Outer Courts.  Courts or open spaces between two or more building
walls that open on any yard on the lot and containing windows in one or more
walls shall have a minimum width of twice the side yard requirements of the
district, except court widths for buildings with a height in excess of 35
feet shall be increased by one foot for each foot of additional building
height above 35 feet, or 50 feet, whichever is less.



4.   Fences, Walls, and Hedges.  Fences, walls, and hedges are permitted
in all districts in accordance with the following limitations:



A.   Any electrically charged fence, barbed wire or sharp pointed metal
fence shall not be allowed unless approved by the Board of Adjustment.



B.   At any corner formed by intersecting street, it shall be unlawful to
install any fence or wall or set out any hedge or shrubbery, natural growth
or other obstruction within the triangle formed by the center line of the
intersecting streets drawn from the point of the intersection back a distance
of 70 feet with a line drawn to form a right triangle.  The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to fences, walls, or hedges of a height of less
than 33 inches above the established grade.



C.   Tree branches which overhang the public sidewalk shall be kept
trimmed to a height of at least eight feet above the sidewalk level.  Tree
branches which overhang the public street, shall be kept trimmed to a height
of not less than 16 feet.



D.   Fence and perimeter wall heights in required yards in residential
uses shall not exceed four feet between a primary structure and an adjacent
street.  The four feet limit shall apply to any such fence or perimeter wall
between any street and any front building line extended to the lot line. 
All other perimeter fences shall not exceed six feet in height.  Greater
heights may be permitted by special use permit approved by the Board of
Adjustment.  The finished side of fences shall face outward from the
enclosed space.



5.   Prohibited Uses with Respect to Public Water Supply Wells.  In all
zoning districts, it shall be prohibited to construct on or utilize land
surrounding any public water supply well for any of the following uses when
said use would be located within the following distance of said water supply
well:



A.   Within 100 feet hereof:



(1)   Storage of chemicals and minerals on or underground, excluding
public potable water treatment chemicals.



(2)   Application of chemicals to ground, excluding lawn fertilizer.



B.   Within 200 feet thereof:



(1)   Mechanical Wastewater Treatment Plants.



(2)   Cesspools and earth privies.



(3)   Soil absorption fields.



(4)   Solid stockpiles of animal wastes.



(5)   Cemeteries.



(6)   Private Wells.



C.   Within 400 feet thereof:



(1)   Point discharge to ground surface of sanitary and industrial wastes.



(2)   Wastewater Lagoons.



(3)   Storage basins or Lagoons for animal wastes.



D.   Within 1000 feet thereof:



(1)   Private water disposal sites.



6.   Prohibited Uses with Respect to the Municipal Wastewater Treatment
Plant.  In all zoning districts, it shall be prohibited to construction, or
utilize, land surrounding the municipal wastewater treatment plant for any of
the following uses when said use would be located within the following
distance of said wastewater treatment plant:



A.   Within 400 feet thereof:



(1)   Public deep wells.



(2)   Private wells.



(3)   Lakes or public water impoundments.



B.   Within 1000 feet thereof:



(1)   Inhabitable residence, commercial building, or other inhabitable
structure.  If there is a written easement and waiver of separation
agreement with the owner of the building, the separation criteria shall not
apply.  Any such written agreement shall be filed with the county recorder
for abstract of title purposes.



(2)   Public shallow wells.



C.   When the above separation distances cannot be maintained for the
expansion, upgrading or replacement of existing facilities, the separation
distances shall be maintained at no less than ninety (90%) of the existing
separation distance on the site, providing no data is available indicating
that a problem has existed or will be created.



170.34   OFF-STREET PARKING & LOADING REQUIREMENTS.



1.   It shall be the intent of this section to prevent traffic congestion
and to provide for proper traffic safety by preserving the public
thoroughfares for the unimpaired movement of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.  Therefore, it shall be recognized that the requirements of this
section are minimum and that in certain uses of land, these requirements may
be inadequate.  Where review of the site plans and intended land use
indicate through the application of proven standards or experienced
statistics that the requirements therein are inadequate for the specific land
use adaptation, a greater requirement for off-street parking space is
justified and may be required to preserve the intent of this section.



2.   Off-Street Loading Space Required.  Every department store, freight
terminal or railroad yard, hospital or sanitarium, industrial plant,
manufacturing establishment, retail establishment, storage warehouse or
wholesale establishment, which has a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet or
more shall provide one off-street loading space plus one additional space for
each 20,000 square feet of floor area or major portion thereof.  Each
loading space shall not be less than ten (10) feet in width and forty (40)
feet in length.



3.   Off-Street Parking Area Required.  In all districts, except the
“B-3” Central Business District, in connection with every industrial,
commercial, business, trade, institutional, recreational, or dwelling, and
similar uses, space for parking and storage of vehicles shall be provided in
accordance with the following schedule.



A.   Apartments Located Above the First Floor of Business.  One and
one-half parking spaces per dwelling in addition to the off-street parking
requirements of any business located within the building.



B.   Automobile Sales and/or Repairing.  One (1) parking space for each
three hundred (300) square feet of floor area and one (1) parking space per
two (2) employees regularly employed on the premises.



C.   Automobile Service Stations.  One (1) parking space for each three
hundred (300) square feet of floor area, plus one (1) additional parking
space per pump, and two (2) parking spaces for each service stall.



D.   Banks, Savings and Loans, and Finance Companies.  One (1) parking
space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area.



E.   Business or Professional Office Buildings.  Five (5) parking spaces
plus one (1) additional parking space for each four hundred (400) square feet
of floor area over one thousand (1000).



F.   Business, General Retail.  One (1) parking space for each three
hundred (300) square feet of floor area, excluding indoor warehousing area
where not a principal use.



G.   Bowling Alleys.  Three (3) parking spaces per alley plus one (1)
parking space per five (5) spectator seats.



H.   Churches.  One (1) parking space per five (5) seats in a public
worship area.



I.   Clinics, Medical or Dental.  One (1) parking space per two hundred
(200) square feet of floor area and per two (2) employees.



J.   Clubs and Lodges.  One (1) parking space per one hundred (100)
square feet of floor space.



K.   Dance Halls, Assembly Halls.  One (1) parking space for each one
hundred (100) square feet of floor area or one (1) parking space for each
four (4) seats of maximum seating capacity whichever is greater.



L.   Dwellings, Residential.



(1)   Single and two family dwellings -- two (2) parking spaces per unit.



(2)   Multi-family dwellings - two (2) parking spaces per unit.



(3)   Rooming, lodging, or boarding house - one (1) parking space for each
sleeping room.



M.   Funeral Homes, Mortuaries.  One (1) parking space per five (5) seats
in the chapel or viewing rooms and per each vehicle maintained on the
premises.



N.   Furniture, Appliance and Other Retail Stores Displaying Large and
Bulky Merchandise.  One (1) parking space per five hundred (500) square feet
of floor area.



O.   Home Occupations.  A minimum of four (4) parking spaces, inclusive
of residence requirements.



P.   Hospitals.  One (1) parking space per two (2) patient beds and one
(1) parking space per three (3) staff members and employees on the largest
shift.



Q.   Hotels, Motels, and Lodging Houses.  One (1) parking space for each
room or suite of rooms offered for tourist accommodations and one (1) parking
space for each two (2) persons regularly employed on the premises.



R.   Industrial Uses, All.  One (1) parking space for each two (2)
employees on the largest shift or each four hundred (400) square feet of
floor area, whichever is greater, plus one (1) additional parking space for
each vehicle operated or kept in connection with the use.



S.   Nursing Homes, Sanitariums, Rest Homes, Senior Housing AND
Convalescent Homes, or Similar Uses.  One (1) parking space per two (2)
patient beds or two (2) residents, whichever is greater, provided however
senior housing projects shall have a minimum parking requirement of one (1)
parking space per living unit.



T.   Restaurants, Taverns, Night Clubs, or Similar Places Dispensing Food,
Drink, or Refreshments.  One (1) parking space per one hundred (100) square
feet of floor area.



U.   Retail Stores, Supermarkets, Department Store, Drug and Sundry
Stores, Etc.  One (1) parking space per three hundred (300) square feet of
floor area.



V.   Schools.



(1)   Elementary, Junior High and other places for under driving age
students.  One (1) parking space per each faculty member plus one (1)
parking space for each full-time employee.



(2)   High Schools.  One (1) parking space per each faculty member and
full-time employee, plus one (1) parking space per twenty (20) students in
accordance with design and capacity of the facilities.



(3)   College, Trade Schools, and Other Places of Young Adult Learning. 
One (1) parking space per each faculty member and full-time employee, plus
one (1) parking space per four (4) students in accordance with design and
capacity of the facilities.



W.   Sports Arenas, Theaters, Auditoriums, and Other Similar Places of
Public Assembly.  One (1) parking space for each five (5) seats or seating
spaces.



X.   Wholesale Establishments or Warehouses.  One (1) parking space for
each person regularly employed on the premises, plus one (1) parking space
for each vehicle operated or kept in conjunction with the use.



Y.   Uses Not Specified.  Where parking requirements for any use are not
specifically defined in this section, such parking requirements shall be
determined by the Board of Adjustment based on comparable uses in compliance
with this section.



4.   General Provisions.



A.   Minimum dimensions for any vehicular parking space shall be nine (9)
feet in width and nineteen (19) feet in length.



B.   A minimum space of 350 square feet shall be required for off-street
parking of a vehicle including access aisles and/or private drives.



C.   Adequate entrances and exits shall be provided for, so as to minimize
traffic congestion.



D.   Parking areas shall be properly graded for drainage.



E.   Parking areas shall be surfaced with a minimum 4.00" Portland cement
or 4.56" Type A (65% crushed material) asphaltic cement concrete.



F.   New Additions.  In case of new additions to existing buildings,
off-street parking and loading areas shall be provided for the new floor area
added in accordance with ratios described in Section 170.34.



G.   Several Uses.  In the event several uses occupy a single structure
or parcel of land, the total requirement for off-street parking shall be the
sum of the requirements of the several uses computed separately.



H.   Joint Use.  Owners of two or more uses, structures, or parcels of
land may agree to utilize jointly the same parking and loading spaces when
the hours of operation do not overlap or are adequate for both uses, provided
that satisfactory legal evidence is presented in the form of deeds, leases,
or contracts to establish joint use.



I.   Availability.  Required parking spaces shall be available for the
parking of operable passenger automobiles of residents, customers, patrons,
and employees only, and shall not be used for storage of vehicles or
materials or for the parking of trucks used in conducting the business of use.



J.   Location.  Off-street parking space for single family, two family or
multiple family dwellings shall be provided within the dwelling or on the
premises of the dwelling.  Off-street parking spaces for other buildings
shall be provided within the buildings, on the premises, or on a permanently
reserved space on another lot any portion of which is within three hundred
(300) feet of said buildings, with the exception of auditoriums, theaters,
churches, assembly halls, or stadiums, which parking spaces can be within six
hundred (600) feet of the latter.  Off-street parking shall be accessible by
traversing public ways.



K.   Plan.  A plan, drawn to scale, indicating how the off-street parking
and loading requirements are to be fulfilled, shall accompany the application
for a building permit and occupancy certificate.  The plan shall show all
elements necessary to indicate that these requirements are being fulfilled.



L.   Exceptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
“B-3” Central Business District.



5.   Rules of Computing Off-Street Parking.  In computing the number of
off-street parking spaces required, the following rules govern:



A.   “Floor Area” means the gross floor area of the specific use.



B.   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required are the
nearest whole number.



C.   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
herein is the same as required for a use of similar nature.



D.   Whenever a building erected or established after the effective date
of this chapter is enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of
dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise to create a need for an
increase of ten percent (10%) or more in the number of existing parking
spaces, such spaces shall be provided on the basis of enlargement or change.



E.   Whenever a building existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter is enlarged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more in the floor
area or in the area used, said building or use shall then and thereafter
comply with the parking requirement set forth herein.



F.   On the following page is a Parking Table showing the space
requirements for various parking angles.







 



6.   Exceptions.  The Board of Adjustment is hereby authorized and
empowered, after a public hearing thereon with a notice to the public, to
permit an exception or modification in the required location of the
off-street loading spaces, if, after investigation by such Board, it is found
that such exception is necessary to prevent unreasonable hardship or to
secure an appropriate development of a specified parcel of land which has
such peculiar or exceptional geographical or topographical conditions or is
of a size, shape, dimensions, or location that it cannot be reasonably
developed in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.



In granting any exception or modifications, the Board may impose conditions
and limitations in respect to the proposed use and development of the
premises as in its judgment are necessary in order to provide adequately for
the public safety and to do substantial justice to the parties involved.



170.35   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. 



A Board of Adjustment is hereby established for the purpose of providing a
body to safeguard the most appropriate development of the community in
accordance with the public interest and to hear appeals from any decision or
interpretation of this ordinance.  The word “Board” shall be construed
to mean the Board of Adjustment.  The Board shall consist of seven (7)
members.  Five (5) members shall be appointed by the Council of the City of
Carroll, Iowa and shall be citizens of the City. Two (2) members shall be
appointed by the Board of Supervisors of Carroll County and shall be citizens
of the area extended beyond the corporate limits of the City of Carroll by a
28E Agreement between the City of Carroll, Iowa and Carroll County, Iowa. 
Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner for the unexpired portion of
the term.




1.   Term.  Each member of the Board shall be appointed to a term of five
years.  All terms shall be staggered so that only one term expires each year.



2.   Compensation.  All members shall serve without compensation.



3.   Officers.  The Board shall elect its own chairman and vice-chairman
at the first meeting on or after January 1 of each year.  The Board shall
also appoint a person to serve as the Secretary of the Board. In the absence
of the secretary, the chairman may appoint another to serve for the
meeting.  The secretary shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact and shall keep records of the examinations, and any
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Clerk and shall be of public record.



4.   Meetings.  Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine.  The chairman,
or in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of the witnesses.  The Board shall have the power to call on any
City department for assistance in the performance of its duties and it shall
be the duty of such department to render such assistance.



5.   Quorum.  The presence of four (4) members shall be necessary for a
quorum and the concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary on all matters upon which it is required to consider.  The
chairman, or acting chairman, are voting members of the Board.



6.   Rules and Regulations.  The Board shall adopt, from time to time,
subject to the approval of the City Council, such rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this ordinance.



7.   Appeals.  Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved,
or by any officer, department, or board of the City affected by any decision
of the administrative officer.  Such appeal shall be taken within a
reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board by filing with the
secretary of the Board and administrative officer, written notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof.  The administrative officer shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from is taken.



8.   Effect of Appeal.  An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the administrative officer certifies to the
Board that a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property.  In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a
court of record on application or notice to the offer from whom the appeal
was taken on due cause shown.



9.   Time and Notice of Hearing.  The Board shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to the parties in interest and decide the same within a reasonable
time.  Upon the hearing any party may appeal in person or by agent or by
attorney.



10.   Duties and Powers.  The Board of Adjustment shall have the
following powers:



A.   The board shall have the power to hear and decide on appeals where it
is alleged that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision,
determination or interpretation by the code official.



B.   The board shall have the power to hear and decide on appeals wherein
a variance to the terms of this code is proposed.  Limitations as to the
board’s authorization shall be as set forth in this code.



C.   Variance review criteria.  The board of adjustment shall be
permitted to approve, approve with conditions or deny a request for a
variance.  Each request for a variance shall be consistent with the
following criteria:



(1)   Limitations on the use of the property due to physical,
topographical and geologic features.



(2)   The grant of the variance will not grant any special privilege to
the property owner. 



(3)   The applicant can demonstrate that without a variance there can be
no reasonable use of the property.



(4)   The grant of the variance is not based solely on economic reasons.



(5)   The necessity for the variance was not created by the property owner.



(6)   The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to allow
reasonable use of the property.



(7)   The grant of the variance will not be injurious to the public
health, safety or welfare.



(8)   The property subject to the variance request possesses one or more
unique characteristics generally not applicable to similarly situated
properties.



D.   Use Variance.  The board of adjustment shall not grant a variance to
allow the establishment of a use in a zoning district when such use is
prohibited by the provisions of this code.



E.   Decisions.  The board shall be permitted to decide in any manner it
sees fit; however, it shall not have the authority to alter or change this
code or zoning map or allow as a use that which would be inconsistent with
requirements of this code.  Provided, however, that in interpreting and
applying the provisions of this code, the requirements shall be deemed to be
the spirit and intent of the code and do not constitute the granting of a
special privilege.



F.   Special Use Permits.  The Board shall have the power to grant
special use permits according to the procedures set forth in this Code.



G.   Parking Exceptions.  The Board shall have the power to grant parking
exceptions or modifications as provided in this Code.



11.   Initiation of Variance.  A request for variance may be initiated by
a property owner or his authorized agent.  A request may also be initiated
by the City Council or Planning and Zoning Commission where a City property
is involved.



12.   Application and Fee.  An application by a property owner, or his
authorized agent for variance, shall be filed with the zoning
administrator.  The application shall be accompanied by adequate drawings
and other descriptive materials constituting a record essential to
understanding the variance requested.  The application shall also be
accompanied by a fee of $50.00 payable to the general fund of the City of
Carroll, Iowa.



13.   Notice of Meeting.  Notice of time and place of the Board's meeting
and of the purpose shall be given by the chairman not less than ten days
prior to the date of the meeting.  The zoning administrative officer shall
give written notice by mail or publication in a newspaper in Carroll of the
meeting to record owners of property abutting the lot or parcel of land on
which the variance is requested, and shall notify record owners of any other
lot or land parcel which is deemed affected by the proposed variance.  Any
decision by the administrative officer as to the identity of persons affected
by the proposed variances shall not be subject to appeal.



14.   Hearings.  At said hearing, any party may appear in person, or by
agent or attorney.  The variance may be granted, refused, or tabled subject
to further investigation.  The Board may attach conditions to an authorized
variance which it feels are necessary to protect the public interest and
carry out the purposes of this ordinance.  A concurring vote of four members
of the Board shall be necessary to grant a variance and the administrative
officer shall notify the applicant for a variance in writing of the Board's
action within seven days after the Board has rendered its decision.



170.36   SPECIAL USE PERMITS. 



Allowable special uses may be permitted, enlarged, or altered upon
application for a special use permit in accordance with the rules and
procedures of the Board of Adjustment.  The Board of Adjustment will grant
or deny a special use permit in accordance with the standards set forth
herein and the intent and purposes of this ordinance.  In granting special
use permits, the Board of Adjustment will authorize the issuance of a special
use permit and may prescribe and impose appropriate conditions, safeguards,
and a specified time limit for the performance of the special use permit. 
Special use permits are not transferable.




1.   Application for Special Use Permit.  A request for a special use
permit for a special use or modification of a special use may be initiated by
a property owner or his authorized agent by filing an application with the
Clerk upon forms prescribed for the purpose.  The application shall be
accompanied by a site plan and such other plans and data showing the
dimensions, arrangements, descriptive data, and other materials constituting
a record essential to an understanding of the proposed use or proposed
modification in relation to the standards set forth herein.  The application
shall also be accompanied with a fee of $50.00.



2.   Meeting.  Before issuance of any special use permit, the Board of
Adjustment will consider the application for special use permit at a meeting
held at the call of the chairman within 47 days after the filing of the
application.



3.   Decisions.  The concurring vote of four members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be necessary to grant a special use permit.  No order of
the Board of Adjustment granting special use permit shall be valid for a
period longer than six months from the date of such order, unless the Board
of Adjustment specially grants a longer period of time or a building permit
is obtained within the six month period and construction is commenced.



4.   Standards.  No special use permit shall be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless such Board shall find:



A.   That the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use
will not be detrimental to, or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare of the community.



B.   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood.



C.   That the establishment of the special use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.



D.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.



E.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets.



F.   The use shall not include any activity involving the use or storage
of flammable, or explosive material unless protected by adequate firefighting
and fire suppression equipment and by such safety devices as are normally
used in the handling of any such material.



G.   The use shall not include noise which is objectionable due to volume,
frequency, or beat unless muffled or otherwise controlled.



H.   The use shall not include vibration which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property.



I.   The use shall not involve any malodorous gas or matter which is
discernible on any adjoining lot or property.



J.   The use shall not involve any pollution of the air by fly ash, dust,
vapors, or other substance which is harmful to health, animals, vegetation or
other property or which can cause soiling, discomfort, or irritation.



K.   The use shall not involve any direct or reflected glare which is
visible from any adjoining property or from any public street, road, or
highway.



L.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
movement of traffic on public streets unless procedures are instituted to
limit traffic hazards and congestion.



M.   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
burden on any public utilities or facilities unless provisions are made for
any necessary adjustment.



5.   General Area Standards.



A.   The principal uses or special uses hereunder permitted in a district
shall be located not less than 500 feet from a residential district.



The buildings, structures, enclosures, or use of land other than growing of
cultivated farm crops, shall be located not less than 100 feet from the
nearest property line.



(1)   Auction or sale barns for the sale of livestock, poultry, eggs, or
other similar agricultural produce.



(2)   Fox, mink, or other similar fur-bearing animal farms.



(3)   Feeding or shelter for livestock or poultry, kept on the premises
for commercial purposes.



(4)   Dog kennels.



(5)   Landfills, including sanitary landfills, or dry waste dumps.



170.37   AMENDMENTS. 



The City Council may, from time to time, on its own initiative, on
application, or on recommendation by the City Planning and Zoning Commission,
after public notice and hearings provided by law, and after report by the
City Planning and Zoning Commission or after thirty days written notice to
said Commission, amend, supplement, or change the regulations or districts
herein or subsequently established.




1.   Application.  Whenever the owners of fifty percent or more of the
area of the lots in any district or part thereof desire any amendment,
supplement, or change in any of the provisions of this Chapter applicable to
this area, they may file an application with the City Clerk requesting the
City Council to make such amendment, supplement, or change.



2.   Application and Fee.  Such application shall be accompanied by a map
or diagram showing the area affected by the proposed amendment, supplement,
or change, together with the boundaries of the said area and the names and
addresses of all the owners of record in the office of the County Recorder of
Carroll County, Iowa, of lots therein and within a distance of 200 feet
outside of the boundaries in said area, said application should be
accompanied by a fee of $100.00 payable to the general fund of Carroll, Iowa.



3.   City Planning and Zoning Commission.  Said application shall
immediately be transmitted to the City Planning and Zoning Commission for an
investigation and report and said Commission shall file its recommendations
approving, disapproving, or modifying the proposed amendment, supplement, or
change with the City Council within 47 days thereafter.



4.   Protest.  If a written protest against any proposed amendment,
supplement, or change shall be presented to the City Council, signed by
twenty percent or more of the owners, either of the area of the lots included
in such proposed change or those immediately adjacent in the rear thereof,
extending the depth of one lot or not to exceed 200 feet therefrom or of
those directly opposite thereto, extending the depth of one lot or not to
exceed 200 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such
amendments shall not become effective, except by the favorable vote of at
least three-fourths of all the members of the City Council.



5.   Limitation.  Whenever an application requesting an amendment,
supplement, or change of any regulation prescribed by this Chapter has been
denied by the City Council, such application cannot be reviewed for one year
thereafter unless it be signed by at least fifty percent of the property
owners who previously objected to the change; this provision, however, shall
not prevent the City Council from acting on its initiative in any case or at
any time as provided in this ordinance.



6.   Record.  Administrative officer shall maintain a record of
amendments to the text, the land use plans, and zoning maps in a form
convenient for the use of the public and shall provide the City Clerk with a
copy of each amendment to the text of this Ordinance and change to the land
use plans and zoning maps and shall keep them as a part of the public record.



170.38   INTERPRETATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY OF ORDINANCE. 



No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
building or part thereof shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, or altered contrary to the provisions of this ordinance.



1.   Administrative Officer.  The City Manager or his authorized
representative shall serve as the administrative officer.  The
administrative officer shall have authority to grant building permits or
certificates of occupancy; to make inspections and to make all decisions
necessary to a proper carrying out of the provisions of this chapter.  No
oversight or dereliction on the part of any official or employee of the City
shall legalize, authorize or excuse the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.



2.   Enforcement and Interpretation.  The administrative officer or his
authorized representative shall have the power and the duty to enforce and
interpret the provisions of this ordinance.  Any appeal from a ruling of the
administrative officer shall be made to the Board of Adjustment.  It is the
intent of this ordinance that all questions or interpretation and enforcement
shall first be presented to the administrative officer.



Where this ordinance imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or land or upon the height of buildings or requires larger lots or yards than
are imposed or required by existing provisions of law or ordinance or by such
rules or regulations, this ordinance shall control.



3.   Form of Petitions, Application and Appeals.  All petitions,
applications, appeals provided in this ordinance shall be made on forms
provided for the purpose or as otherwise prescribed by the Board of
Adjustment in order to assure the fullest practical presentation of pertinent
facts and to maintain a permanent record.  All applications shall be
accompanied by plans drawn to scale showing the actual shape and dimensions
of a lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot of the
buildings and other structures existing and proposed buildings or structures,
the existing and proposed and intended use of each building, structure, or
land and such other pertinent descriptive information as is needed to
determine their conformance with the provisions of this ordinance.



4.   Violation and Penalties.  Any person, firm, co-partnership,
corporation, or other association of persons, whether acting directly or
through employees or agents, that violates, disobeys, omits, neglects,
refuses to comply with, or resists the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a municipal infraction and upon conviction
thereof shall for each offense pay a sum not exceeding the maximum allowed by
law.  Each day that the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.



(Ch. 170 – Ord. 1507 – Jan. 16 Supp.)



 




EDITOR’S NOTE



The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
referred to in Section 170.06 of this chapter and have not been included as a
part of this Code of Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal
and are in full force and effect.



ORDINANCE

 

ADOPTED

 

SUBJECT




1508

 

November 9, 2015

 

Rezoning from R-3PUD to R-3




1510

 

December 28, 2015

 

Rezoning from R-5 to B-2




1607

 

April 25, 2016

 

Rezoning from A-1 to B-2




1608

 

April 25, 2016

 

Rezoning from A-1 to R-2




1801

 

January 22, 2018

 

Rezoning from A-2 to I-2




1802

 

August 6, 2018

 

Rezoning from A-1 to PUD




1803

 

August 6, 2018

 

*Rezoning from R-3 to PUD





 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 


 






 



 



CHAPTER 171
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS



 

171.01  Definitions
 
171.06  Board of Adjustment


171.02  Airport Zones and Airspace Height Limitations
 
171.07  Judicial Review


171.03  Use Restrictions
 
171.08  Administrative Agency


171.04  Lighting
 
171.09  Penalties


171.05  Variances
 
171.10  Conflicting Regulations



 



171.01  DEFINITIONS.



As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:



1.   “Airport” means the Arthur N. Neu Municipal Airport. 



2.   “Airport elevation” means the highest point of an airport’s
usable landing area measured in feet above mean sea level, which elevation is
established to be 1,204 feet.



3.   “Airport hazard” means any structure or tree or use of land that
would exceed the Federal obstruction standards as contained in 14 CFR 77.21,
77.23, and 77.25, and that obstructs the airspace required for the flight of
aircraft and landing or takeoff at an airport or is otherwise hazardous to
such landing or taking off of aircraft.



4.   “Airport primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered
on a runway.  When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the
primary surface extends two hundred (200) feet beyond each end of that
runway.  The width of the primary surface of a runway will be that width
prescribed in Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for the most
precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway.  The
elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of
the nearest point on the runway centerline.



5.   “Airspace height” means, for the purpose of determining the
height limits in all zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning
map, sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.



6.   “Control zone” means airspace extending upward from the surface
of the earth, which zone may include one or more airports and is normally a
circular area of five (5) statute miles in radius, with extensions where
necessary to include instrument approach and departure paths. 



7.   “Instrument runway” means a runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities or area type
navigation equipment, for which an instrument approach procedure has been
approved or planned. 



8.   “Minimum descent altitude” means the lowest altitude expressed in
feet above mean sea level, to which descent is authorized on final approach
or during circle-to-land maneuvering in execution of a standard instrument
approach procedure, where no electronic glide slope is provided. 



9.   “Minimum en route altitude” means the altitude in effect between
radio fixes which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage and meets
obstruction clearance requirements between those fixes. 



10.   “Minimum obstruction clearance altitude” means the specified
altitude in effect between radio fixes on VOR airways, off-airways routes, or
route segments which meets obstruction clearance requirements for the entire
route segment and which assures acceptable navigational signal coverage only
within twenty-two (22) miles of a VOR.



11.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing
and take-off of aircraft along its length.



12.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation
of aircraft using visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument
approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved
airport layout plan, military services approved military airport layout plan,
or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by competent authority. 



171.02  AIRPORT ZONES AND AIRSPACE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.



In order to carry out the provisions of this section, there are hereby
created and established certain zones that are depicted on the Arthur N. Neu
Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.  A structure located in more than one
zone of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the
more restrictive height limitations.  The various zones are hereby
established and defined as follows:



1.   Horizontal Zone.  The land lying under a horizontal plane 150 feet
above the established elevations, the perimeter of which is constructed by
swinging arcs of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of Runways 13 and 31, and 5,000 feet for Runways 3 and 21, and
connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs.  No structure
shall exceed 150 feet above the established airport elevation in the
horizontal zone, as depicted on the Arthur N. Neu Municipal Airport Height
Zoning Map.



2.   Conical Zone.  The land lying under a surface extending outward and
upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 feet to
one for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.  No structure shall penetrate
the conical surface in the conical zone, as depicted on the Arthur N. Neu
Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.



3.   Approach Zone.  The land lying under the surface longitudinally
centered on the extended runway centerline and extending outward and upward
from each end of the primary surface. 



(Note:  An approach surface is applied to each end of each runway based upon
the type of approach available or planned for that runway end.)



   A.   The inner edge of the approach surface is:



      (1)   250 feet wide for Runways 3 and 21. 



      (2)   500 feet wide for Runways 13 and 31. 



   B.   The outer edge of the approach zone is: 



      (1)   1,250 feet for Runways 3 and 21 (visual utility runways).



      (2)   3,500 feet for Runways 13 and 31 (non-precision
instrument with visibility minimums more than ¾ statute mile).



   C.   The approach zone extends for a horizontal distance of 10,000
feet at a slope of 34 to one for Runways 13 and 31 (non-precision instrument
with visibility minimums more than ¾ statute mile); and 5,000 feet at a
slope of 20 to 1 for Runways 3 and 21 (visual utility runways).



No structure shall exceed the approach surface to any runway, as depicted on
the Arthur N. Neu Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map.



4.   Transitional Zone.  The land lying under those surfaces extending
outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline and the runway
centerline extended at a slope of seven to one from the sides of the primary
surface and from the sides of the approach surfaces.  No structures shall
exceed the transitional surface, as depicted on the Arthur N. Neu Municipal
Airport Height Zoning Map.



5.   Increase in Elevation of Structures.  No structure shall be erected
in the County that raises the published minimum descent altitude for an
instrument approach to any runway, nor shall any structure be erected that
causes the minimum obstruction clearance altitude or minimum en route
altitude to be increased on any Federal airway in the County.



171.03  USE RESTRICTIONS.



Notwithstanding any other provisions of 171.02, no use may be made of land or
water within the City or County in such a manner as to interfere with the
operation of any airborne aircraft.  The following special requirements
shall apply to each permitted use:



1.   Lighting.  All lights or illumination used in conjunction with
streets, parking, signs or use of land and structures shall be arranged and
operated in such a manner that it is not misleading or dangerous to aircraft
operating from the Municipal Airport or in the vicinity thereof. 



2.   Visual Hazards.  No operation from any use shall produce smoke,
glare, or other visual hazards within three statute miles of any usable
runway of the Municipal Airport.



3.   Electronic Interference.  No operation from any use in the City or
County shall produce electronic interference with navigation signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft. 



171.04  LIGHTING.



Notwithstanding the provisions of 171.03, the owner of any structure over two
hundred (200) feet above ground level must install on the structure lighting
in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Advisory Circular
70-7460-1D and amendments.  Additionally, any structure constructed after
the effective date of this chapter† 8 (August 14, 1978) and exceeding 949
feet above ground level, must install on that structure high intensity white
obstruction lights in accordance with Chapter 6 of FAA Advisory Circular
7460-1D and amendments.  Any permit or variance granted may be so
conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or growth in question to
permit the City or County at its own expense to install, operate, and
maintain thereto such markers or lights as may be necessary to indicate to
pilots the presence of an airspace hazard.



171.05  VARIANCES.



Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or to
permit the growth of any tree, or to otherwise use property in violation of
any section of this chapter, may apply to the Board of Adjustment for
variance from such regulations.  No application for variance to the
requirements of this chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment
unless a copy of the application has been submitted to Municipal Airport
Zoning Commission for an opinion as to the aeronautical effects of such a
variance.  If the Municipal Airport Zoning Commission does not respond to
the Board of Adjustment within 15 days from receipt of the copy of the
application, the Board may make its decision to grant or deny the variance.



171.06  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.



A Board of Adjustment is provided for as follows:



1.   Powers and Duties.  The Carroll County Zoning Board of Adjustment
will have and exercise the following powers:



   A.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Carroll County Zoning Commission in
the enforcement of this chapter.



   B.   To hear and decide special exemptions to the terms of this
chapter upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be
required to pass. 



   C.   To hear and decide specific variances. 



2.   Appointment and Term.  The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five
members appointed by the Board of Supervisors for the County to serve for
staggered terms of five years and until successors are duly appointed and
qualified.  Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for
cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing.



3.   Rules; Meetings.  The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and in harmony with the provisions of this chapter.  Meetings of
the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.  The Chairperson or, in his
or her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.  All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
open to the public.  The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations, and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be
filed in the offices of the County Auditor, and on due cause shown.



4.   Powers.  The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers established
in the Code of Iowa, Section 414.12.



5.   Vote Required.  The concurring vote of a majority of the members of
the Board of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of any administrative official or to
decide in favor of the applicant, on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter, or to effect variations of this chapter.



171.07  JUDICIAL REVIEW.



Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment may appeal to the court of record as provided in the Code of Iowa,
Section 414.15.



171.08  ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY.



It is the duty of the County Zoning Administrator to administer the
regulations prescribed herein.  Applications for permits and variances shall
be made to County Zoning Administrator upon a form furnished by the
Administrator.  Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the
administrative agency shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. 
Application for action by the Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith
transmitted by the County Zoning Administrator.



171.09  PENALTIES.



Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a
fine of not more than $500.00 or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both; and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.



171.10  CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.



Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict is with respect to height of structures, the use
of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement
shall govern and prevail.



 


Notes

8 
†EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 7810, codified herein, was adopted by the
Council August 14, 1978, and by the County Board of Supervisors March 6, 1978.



CHAPTER 175
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS



 



EDITOR’S NOTE


Ordinance No. 8403 entitled “The City of Carroll, Iowa, Subdivision
Regulations,” adopted February 13, 1984, and amendments thereto, contained
in a separate volume, are a part of this Code of Ordinances, and have been
specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.  The
following ordinances have been adopted amending Ordinance No. 8403.


ORDINANCE
 
ADOPTED
 
SUBJECT


8808
 
6-27-88
 
Definitions


9010
 
3-26-90
 
Street Surfacing


9513
 
7-10-95
 
Preliminary and Final Plat


0212
 
8-26-02
 
Minor Subdivisions; Variances or Waivers


0313
 
9-22-03
 
Definition of Minor Subdivision


1
TITLE VI – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 6 – SUBDIVISION CONTROL
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
6-6.0101 SHORT TITLE. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The City of Carroll,
Iowa, Subdivision Regulations”.
6-6.0102 PURPOSE. The purpose of these regulations is to establish minimum standards for the
design, development, and improvement of all new subdivisions and re-subdivisions so that
existing developments will be protected and so that adequate provisions are made for public
services and to promote the health, safety and general welfare.
6-6.0103 POLICY. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the subdivided
land and the subsequent development of the subdivided land as subject to the control of the City
to provide for the orderly, efficient and economical development of the City. And further:
1. Character of Land. Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood or other
menace.
2. Regulations to Supplement and Facilitate. It is intended that these subdivision
regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of provisions and standards,
ordinances or regulations of the City.
6-6.0104 APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION. Every owner or his agent of any tract or parcel
of land lying within the City or within two (2) miles of the corporate limits of the City who has
subdivided or shall hereafter subdivide the same into two (2) or more parts for the purpose of
laying out an addition, building lot or lots, or acreage lots shall cause plats of such area to be
made in the form, and containing the information as hereafter set forth, before selling any lots
therein contained or placing the plat on record.
6-6.0105 INTERPRETATION. In their interpretation or application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare. Specifically:
1. Relationship to Other Public Provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, or abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other
provision of law. Where any provision of these regulations imposes a restriction
different from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more
restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
2
2. Relationship to Private Provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, provided that where
the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the
requirements of these regulations shall govern.
6-6.0106 ACTION UNDER PRIOR PROVISIONS. These regulations do not abate any action
now pending under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations. Nor do they
discontinue, abate, modify, or alter any penalty accrued or about to accrue, or affect the liability
of any person, or waive any right of the City under any section or provision existing at the time
of adoption of these regulations. Nor do they vacate or annul any rights obtained by any person,
by lawful action of the City except as expressed in these regulations.
6.6.0107. VARIANCES OR WAIVERS. The Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council reserve the right to authorize such variances or waive such portions of the Subdivision
Regulations as will not be contrary to the public interests, where owing to special conditions a
literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship, and
so that the spirit of the Subdivision Regulations shall be observed and substantial justice done. A
request for such variance or waiver may be initiated by the property owner or his authorized
agent by using the Application now available for Board of Adjustment variances. The
Commission shall hold such hearing or conduct such investigation as it deems appropriate. A full
public hearing shall be held before the City Council before any such variance or waiver of
Subdivision Regulations shall be granted. Notice of the City Council’s public hearing upon such
request for waiver or variance shall be given by mailing written notice or by publication of notice
in a newspaper in Carroll of the meeting to record owners of property abutting the tracts, lots, or
parcels of land on which the variance or waiver is requested, and the City Administrative Officer
shall notify record owners of any other lot or land parcel which is deemed affected by the
proposed variance or waiver. Any decision by the Administrative Officer as to the identity of
persons affected by the proposed variance or waiver shall not be subject to appeal.
3
TITLE VI – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 6 – SUBDIVISION CONTROL
ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS
6-6.0201 DEFINITIONS. For the purpose of this Ordinance, certain terms and words are hereby
defined. Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the singular number shall
include the plural and the plural the singular; the word shall is mandatory, and the word may is
permissive.
1. “Alley”: shall mean a public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose frontage is on some other
street.
2. “Applicant”: shall mean the owner of land to be subdivided or his representative.
3. “Block”: shall mean a tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways, or corporate
boundaries, or the exterior boundaries of a subdivision.
4. “Bond”: shall mean any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the
Council.
5. “Building”: shall mean any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels, or moveable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
6. “Central Water System”: shall mean a private water system established by the developer
to serve a new subdivision or re-subdivision. It includes water treatment and distribution
facilities.
7. “Central Sewage System”: shall mean a private sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision or resubdivision.
8. “City Engineer”: shall mean the person designated by the Council to furnish engineering
assistance for the administration of these regulations.
9. “Commission”: shall mean the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Carroll,
Iowa.
10. “Council”: shall mean the City Council of the City of Carroll, Iowa.
4
11. “Cul-de-sac”: shall mean a municipal service street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
12. “Developer”: shall mean the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his
representative.
13. “Easement”: shall mean an authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and
for a specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
14. “Engineer”: shall mean a registered professional engineer licensed under the provisions
of Chapter 114, Code of Iowa, 1983.
15. “Frontage”: shall mean that portion of a lot abutting on a street or way and complying
with the set back and front yard requirements as they may exist, but it shall not be
considered as the side of a corner lot.
16. “Individual Sewage Disposal System”: shall mean a septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
17. “Local Board of Health”: shall mean a County, City, or district board of health.
18. “Lot”: shall mean a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or for building development.
18A. “Minor Subdivision”. A Subdivision of land which meets the following criteria:
A. All new lots shall front on and have direct access from an existing public
street.
B. No new public or private street shall be created or sought to be dedicated or
contemplated to project through the proposed Subdivision.
C. No new lot shall conflict with any provisions or portion of the City Zoning
Ordinance or this Ordinance.
D. The quarter quarter section in which the proposed Minor Subdivision is to
be located has not been divided previously into three or more tracts or lots,
nor have more than two Plats of Survey of individual lots been located
within that quarter quarter section.
E. No more than three (3) lots are created by the proposed Minor Subdivision,
not including the lot created by the remaining tract, but including any lots
or tracts previously platted within the quarter quarter section.
F. No municipal utility facility shall be created.
G. The proposed Minor Subdivision is within the 2-mile area surrounding
Carroll’s city limits and within the jurisdiction of the City under Iowa Code
Sections 354.9 and 414.23.
5
19. “Municipal Arterial Streets”: shall mean those streets which connect principal traffic
generating areas or connect such areas with other street systems.
20. “Municipal Collector Streets”: shall mean those streets that collect traffic from
municipal service streets and connect to other street systems.
21. “Municipal Service Street”: shall mean those streets and commercial alleys which serve
primarily as access to commercial and residential property and shall also include streets
within municipal parks.
22. “Owner”: shall mean any person, firm, corporation, or any legal entity having legal title
to or sufficient proprietary interest in the land to be sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
23. “Plat”: shall mean a map, drawing or chart on which the developer’s plan of the
subdivision of land is presented and which he submits for approval and intends in final
form, to record.
24. “Public Improvement”: shall mean any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian crosswalk, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility
for which the local government may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance
and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which local government
responsibility is established.
25. “Right-of-Way”: shall mean a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, sidewalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another special use. The usage
of the term “right-of-way” for land platting purposes shall mean that every right-of-way
hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or
parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not including within the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency shall be
dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
26. “Roadway”: shall mean that portion of the street available for vehicular traffic, and
where curbs are laid, the portion from back to back of curbs.
27. “Street”: shall mean and include any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, or other public thoroughfare, and each of such words shall include every other of
them, and shall include the entire width between property lines.
28. “Subdivider”: shall mean a person, firm, or corporation undertaking the subdivision or
re-subdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
29. “Subdivision”: shall mean the division of a tract of land within the city or within two (2)
miles of the corporate limits which land has been divided or shall hereafter be divided into
6
two (2) or more parts for the purpose of laying out an addition, building lot or lots, or
acreage lots.
30. “Surveyor”: shall mean a land surveyor licensed and registered under the provisions of
Chapter 114, Code of Iowa, 1983.
7
TITLE VI – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 6 – SUBDIVISION CONTROL
ARTICLE 3
PROCEDURE
6-6.0301 PROCEDURE. In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the Council,
the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance with the requirements of 6-6.0303
and install the required improvements or provide a performance bond.
6-6.0302 PRE-SUBMISSION CONSULTATIONS. Prior to the submission of the preliminary
plat of any subdivision, the subdivider is required to meet with the City Engineer and other City
officials responsible for the administration of these regulations to be advised of the procedural
steps, design standards, required improvements, and platting requirements. During such
meetings, no commitments shall be made which will be binding upon the City.
6-6.0303 REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT. Every proposed subdivision shall be
submitted for tentative approval in the form of a preliminary plat prior to the submission of a
final record plat. The purpose of the preliminary plat and accompanying material is to provide all
facts needed for the Commission and Council to determine whether the proposed subdivision is
satisfactory from the standpoint of the public interest. The following graphic descriptive material
is required to be provided on the preliminary plat and in the accompanying material.
1. Contents of Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered engineer
at a convenient scale of not more than one inch equals fifty (50) feet, prepared in pen, and the
sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used. The following
information shall be shown on the preliminary plat:
A. Title, scale, north point and date.
B. Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and references to
section, townships and range lines or corners. Exterior boundaries are to be indicated
with a solid heavy line.
C. Present and proposed streets, alleys, sidewalks, and storm water inlets with their rightsof-
way, in or adjoining the subdivision, dedicated widths, gradients, types and widths of
surfaces, curbs, plantings, strips, location of street lights, fire hydrants, and street signs.
D. Proposed layout of blocks and lots showing dimensions, radii, chords, and the square foot
areas of lots that are not rectangular, and the lot and block number in numerical order.
E. Building setback or front yard lines.
F. Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools, parks, playgrounds, or
other public, semi-public or community purposes.
8
G. Present and proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes, and limitations.
H. Location and names of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided and subdivided land.
I. Boundaries of the highest known flood of record or the 100-year recurrence interval
flood, whichever is greater, affecting the subdivision and the source of information.
J. If the proposed subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the distances and bearings of
meander line established not less than twenty (20) feet back from the mean high water
mark of the lake or stream.
K. Existing blocks, lots and buildings.
L. Present and proposed utility systems including sanitary and storm sewers, other drainage
facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities, and other facilities, with the size and
location of each. If the subdivision is within one mile of public sewer or water or both,
notation shall be made of the direction and distance to such facilities.
M. Proposed name of the subdivision.
N. Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, builder, and engineer who prepared the
preliminary plat, and the surveyor who will prepare the final plat.
O. Official legal description of the property being platted.
P. Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two (2) feet if the general slope of the site
is less than ten (10) percent and at vertical intervals of not more than five (5) feet if the
general slope is ten (10) percent or greater.
Q. Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjoining property.
R. Location of all proposed monuments.
S. Location of natural water courses, bridges, wooded areas, and such other topographical
features as are pertinent.
2. Information to be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following information shall
accompany a plat when filing.
A. A complete listing of all existing covenants which apply to the land to be subdivided, and
a complete listing of all covenants which are proposed by the developer to apply to the
subdivided land.
B. A table of the following information:
(1) Total acreage of subdivision.
9
(2) Total number of lots.
(3) Minimum, average, and maximum lot area.
(4) Acreage of public lands to be dedicated or reserved other than streets.
C. An attorney’s opinion showing that the fee title to the property proposed or subdividing is
in the owner’s name as shown on the plat and showing any encumbrances that may exist
against the land.
D. If any portion of the subdivision is to have access on a state or county jurisdictional
street, a written and signed statement acknowledging and permitting the access by the
duly authorized official of the appropriate jurisdiction.
E. A site grading plan for the entire subdivision with elevations referred to mean sea level as
exhibited in standard U.S. Geological Survey Maps.
6-6.0304 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT. The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary
plat in accordance with the provisions of 6-6.0303 and shall file with the Clerk an application in
triplicate for the tentative approval of the plat. The application shall:
1. Forms and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with a fee of two
hundred fifty (250) dollars. Ordinance 9513, July 10, 1995.
2. Number of Plats. Be accompanied by a minimum of fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary
plat. Ordinance 9513, July 10, 1995.
3. Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least twenty (20) days prior to the regular
meeting of the Commission.
6-6.0305 REFERRAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT. The Clerk shall immediately refer two (2)
copies of the preliminary plat to the City Engineer and seven (7) copies to the Commission. In
the case of a subdivision outside the corporate limits of the City, the Clerk shall refer one copy of
the preliminary plat to the County Board of Supervisors.
6-6.0306 REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary plat shall be reviewed by City
staff to determine its conformity with these regulations and all other ordinances and regulations
in force affecting subdivisions. Copies of the preliminary plat may be transmitted to other City or
school officials, as the City staff deems necessary, for their recommendations concerning matters
within their jurisdiction. Their recommendations, along with those of the City Engineer shall be
transmitted to the Commission within ten (10) days from the date the plat is filed with them. The
Commission and/or City staff may confer with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and
the kind and extent of such improvements to be made.
6-6.0307 ACTION BY THE COMMISSION. The Commission shall, as soon as possible, but not
more than thirty (30) days thereafter, pass upon the preliminary plat as originally submitted or
10
modified. If the Commission does not act within thirty (30) days, the preliminary plat shall be
deemed to be approved, provided, however, that the subdivider may agree to an extension of the
time period not to exceed an additional sixty (60) days. It shall then set forth its
recommendations in writing, whether of approval, modification, or disapproval.
1. Reasons for Changes or Disapproval. In the event that substantial changes or
modifications are made by the Commission or the Commission recommends disapproval
of the plat, it shall give its reasons therefor and it may request and cause the revised
preliminary plat to be re-submitted in the same manner as the original plat.
2. Tentative Approval. If the Commission recommends approval, it shall express its
approval as “Tentative Approval” and state the conditions of such approval, if any.
3. Documenting Approval. The action of the Commission shall be documented on seven (7)
copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy shall be retained by the Commission,
and five (5) copies shall be referenced to the Council.
6-6.0308 ACTION BY COUNCIL. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the preliminary plat
from the Commission, the Council shall, by resolution, tentatively approve or disapprove the
plat. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, objections to it shall be returned to the Commission
for further review and the Clerk shall notify the subdivider of such action. If approved, the Clerk
shall affix his signature to five (5) copies of the preliminary plat with the notation of the date the
preliminary plat received the Council’s tentative approval. One copy shall be returned to the
Commission and three (3) copies shall be returned to the subdivider. The “Tentative Approval”
by the Council shall not constitute final acceptance of the addition or subdivision by the City but
an authorization to proceed with preparation of the final plat.
6-6.0309 EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL. The tentative approval of a
preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year at the end of which time final approval
must have been obtained. Any plat not receiving final approval within this period of time shall be
void, and the subdivider shall be required to re-submit a new plat for tentative approval subject
to all new zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations
6-6.0310 AUTHORIZATION TO INSTALL IMPROVEMENTS. The approval of the
preliminary plat shall constitute authorization by the Council for the installation of improvements
as shown on the preliminary plat; provided, no such improvements shall be constructed or
installed until and unless the plans, profiles, cross-sections and specifications for the construction
of such improvements have been submitted to, and approved in writing by, the City Engineer.
1. Requirements of Public Improvement Construction Documents. The public improvement
construction documents shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer in
sufficient detail to permit bidding the work. The plans shall be prepared on standard sized
sheets to a scale of not less than one inch equals twenty (20) feet for street paving
improvements and one inch equals fifty (50) feet for sewer and watermain projects not
associated with paving improvements.
11
2. Contents of Public Improvement Construction Plans. The following information shall be
shown on the public improvement construction plans in addition to any other information
deemed necessary by the City Engineer.
A. Title Sheet
B. Estimate of quantities and notes including bench mark data and references
C. Details
D. Plans and profiles including right-of-way and/or easement locations and curve data
E. Cross-sections
3. “As Built” Drawings. At the completion of construction of any public improvements or
portions of improvements, and prior to acceptance of the improvements by the City, the
City shall be provided with two copies of “As Built” drawings of the completed
improvements, one being on drafting film capable of reproduction.
6-6.0311 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS. Before the Council will approve the final plat,
subdivider shall agree to and sign a subdivision agreement which shall set forth the conditions
for the installation of all the public improvements and set forth the terms and conditions of this
plat. Before passage of resolution of acceptance, the City Engineer shall report that said
improvements substantially meet all City specifications and ordinances or other City
requirements, and the agreements between the subdivider and the City.
6-6.0312 PERFORMANCE BOND. The completion requirement for improvements may be
waived in whole or in part if the subdivider will post a performance bond with the Council
guaranteeing that improvements not completed will be constructed within a period of one year
from final acceptance of the plat; but final acceptance of the plat will not constitute final
acceptance by the City of any improvements to be constructed. Improvements will be accepted
only after their construction has been completed and approved by the City Engineer. Such
performance bond shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to form, sufficiency, and manner
of execution. Upon recommendation of the Commission, the Council may extend the completion
date set forth in the bond for a maximum period of one additional year.
6-6.0313 FINAL PLAT. The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at the time, provided, however, that
such portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations.
6-6.0314 REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT. The following graphic and descriptive
material is required to be provided on the final plat and in the accompanying material.
1. Contents of the Final Plat. Every plat of a subdivision offered for record shall conform to all
of the following provisions where applicable:
12
A. The plat shall be a permanent copy or a photographic print made on a stable plastic film.
Exact copies of the plat to be recorded shall be provided to and filed by the county
recorder, assessor, and auditor. The original plat drawing shall remain the property of the
registered land surveyor.
B. The size of each sheet showing any portion of the subdivided lands shall not be greater
than twenty-four (24) inches by thirty-six (36) inches nor less than eight and one-half (8
1/2) inches by eleven (11) inches.
C. Whenever more than one sheet is used to accurately portray the lands subdivided, each
sheet shall display both the number of the sheet and the total number of sheets included in
the plat, as well as clearly labeled match lines indicating where the other sheets adjoin.
An index sheet shall be provided to show the relationship between the sheets.
D. A maximum scale of fifty (50) feet to one inch shall be used. The scale used shall be
clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale drawn on every sheet showing any
portion of the lands subdivided.
E. Subdivisions shall be designated, by name or as otherwise prescribed, in bold letters
inside the margin at the top of each sheet included in the plat.
F. An arrow indicating the northern direction shall be drawn in a prominent place on each
sheet included in the plat, as well as the scale and date.
G. All monuments to be of record shall be adequately described and clearly identified on the
plat. When additional monuments are to be established subsequent to the recording of the
plat, the location of the additional monument shall be shown on the plat.
H. Sufficient survey data shall be shown to positively describe the bounds of every lot,
block, street, easement, or other areas shown on the plat, as well as the outer boundaries
of the subdivided lands.
I. All distances shall be shown in feet to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot, and in
accordance with the definition of a foot adopted by the United States Bureau of
Standards. All measurements shall refer to the horizontal plane.
J. The course of every boundary line shown on the plat shall be indicated by a direct
bearing reference or by an angle between the boundary line and an intersecting line
having a shown bearing, except when the boundary line has an irregular or constantly
changing course, as along a body of water, or when a description of the boundary line is
better achieved by measurements shown at points or intervals along a meander line
having a shown course. All bearings and angles shown shall be given to at least the
nearest minute of arc.
K. Curve data shall be stated in terms of radius, central angle, tangent, and length of curve.
In all cases, the curve data must be shown for the line affected.
13
L. The minimum unadjusted acceptable error of closure for all subdivision boundaries shall
be 1:10,000 and shall be 1:5,000 for any individual lot.
M. When any lot or portion of the subdivision is bounded by an irregular line, the major
portion of that lot or subdivision shall be enclosed by a meander line showing complete
data with distances along all lines extending beyond the enclosure to the irregular
boundary shown with as much certainty as can be determined or as “more or less”, if
variable. In all cases, the true boundary shall be clearly indicated on the plat.
N. All interior excepted parcels shall be clearly indicated and labeled, “not a part of this
plat”.
O. All adjoining properties shall be identified, and where such adjoining properties are a part
of a recorded subdivision, the name of that subdivision shall be shown. If the subdivision
platted is a re-subdivision of a part or the whole of a previously recorded subdivision,
sufficient ties shall be shown to controlling lines appearing on the earlier plat to permit an
overlay to be made. Re-subdivisions shall be labeled as such in a subtitle following the
name of the subdivision wherever the name appears on the plat.
P. The purpose of any easement shown on the plat shall be clearly stated and shall be
confined to only those easements pertaining to public utilities including gas, power,
telephone, television cable, water, sewer, and such drainage easements as are deemed
necessary for the orderly development of the land encompassed within the plat.
Q. A strip of land shall not be reserved by the subdivider unless the land is of sufficient size
and shape to be of some practical use or service as determined by the Council.
R. The purpose of all areas dedicated to the public must be clearly indicated on the plat.
S. Street names and clear designation of public alleys.
T. Block and lot numbers.
U. Name and address of owner and subdivider.
V. Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for public use.
W. The plat shall be signed and acknowledged by the subdivision land owner and his or her
spouse.
X. A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by the registered land surveyor who
drew the plat.
2. Information to be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following material shall be
submitted with the Final Plat:
A. A correct legal description of the subdivision land.
14
B. A certificate by the owner and his spouse, if any, that the subdivision is with the free
consent, and is in accordance with the desire of the owner and spouse. This certificate
must be signed and acknowledged by the owner and spouse before some officer
authorized to take the acknowledgements of deeds.
C. A complete abstract of title and an attorney’s opinion showing that the fee title to the
subdivision land is in the owner’s name and that the land is free from encumbrances other
than those secured be any encumbrance bond.
D. A certificate from the county treasurer that the subdivision land is free from taxes.
E. A certificate from the clerk of the district court that the subdivision land is free from all
judgements, attachments, or mechanics or other liens of record in his office.
F. A certificate from the county recorder that the title in fee is in the owner’s name and that
it is free from encumbrances other than those secured by an encumbrance bond.
G. A statement of restrictions of all types that run with the land and become covenants in the
deeds of lots.
H. Resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for signatures of the Mayor
and Clerk.
I. A certificate by the City Engineer that all required improvements and installations have
been completed according to the construction plans submitted with the preliminary plat,
or that a performance bond guaranteeing completion has been approved by the City
Attorney and filed with the Clerk, or that the Council has agreed that the City will
provide the necessary improvements and installations and assess the costs against the
subdivider or future property owners in the subdivision.
J. The encumbrance bond, if any.
6-6.0315 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT. The subdivider shall prepare a final plat in
accordance with the provisions of 6-6.0314 and shall file with the Clerk an application in
triplicate for the final approval of the plat. The application shall:
1. Forms and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with a fee of fifty
(50) dollars. Ordinance 9513, July 10, 1995.
2. Number of copies of Plat. Be accompanied by a minimum of fifteen (15) copies of the
final plat. Ordinance 9513, July 10, 1995.
3. Offers of Dedication. Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to
the public of all streets, City uses, utilities and easements, in a form approved by the City
Attorney.
15
4. Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least twenty (20) days prior to the
regular meeting of the Commission.
6-6.0316 REFERRAL OF FINAL PLAT. The Clerk shall immediately refer two (2) copies of
the final plat to the City Engineer and seven (7) copies to the Commission. In the case of a
subdivision outside the corporate limits of the City, the Clerk shall refer one copy of the final
plat to the County Board of Supervisors.
6-6.0317 ACTION BY COMMISSION. The Commission shall, upon receiving the final plat, as
soon as possible, but not more than thirty (30) days thereafter, consider the final plat, and if the
same is recommended for approval, shall submit its recommendation of approval to the Council
together with a certified copy of its resolution showing the action of the Commission. If the
Commission recommends approval of the final plat, such approval and the date thereof shall be
noted on the plat over the signature of both the chairman and secretary of the Commission and
the plat and five (5) copies shall be transmitted to the Council, and one copy shall be returned to
the subdivider.
6-6.0318 ACTION BY THE COUNCIL. Upon receipt of the certification by the Commission,
the Council shall, within sixty (60) days, either approve or disapprove the final plat.
1. Disapproval of Plat. In the event that said plat is disapproved by the Council, such
disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out wherein said proposed plat is
objectionable.
2. Acceptance of Plat. In the event that said plat is found to be acceptable and in accordance
with these regulations, the Council shall accept same.
3. Final Approval and Recording of Plat. The passage of a resolution by the Council
accepting the plat shall constitute final approval of the platting of the area shown on the
final plat, but the subdivider or owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the office of
the county recorder of the county where the land to be subdivided is located, and shall
file satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office of the Clerk before the City shall
recognize the plat as being in full force and effect.
6-6.0319 RE-SUBDIVISION OF LAND. The following requirements shall govern the resubdividing
of land.
1. Procedure for Re-subdividing. For any change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on such map, or area
reserved for public use indicated on the map, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or
plan legally established prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions,
such parcel shall be approved by the same procedure, rules, and regulations as for a
subdivision.
2. Acreage Lots. Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows
one or more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that such
16
lots will eventually be re-subdivided into smaller building sites, the Commission and
Council may require that such parcel of land allow for future opening of streets and the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future opening and
extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
6-6.0320 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF MINOR SUBDIVISION. The procedure for
approval of a Minor Subdivision, as defined in Section 6-6.0201(18A), shall consist of filing
with the Clerk:
A. Final Plat of Survey of the Minor Subdivision.
B. Application for Plat Approval with the proposed Final Plat of the Minor
Subdivision.
C. A recent aerial photo showing the quarter quarter section where the
proposed Minor Subdivision is to be located.
D. Certificate of the City Public Works Director certifying that the proposed
Minor Subdivision will not create an undue burden on present or future
City infrastructure.
E. Certificate of the Zoning Administrator that the proposed Minor
Subdivision would not violate either the City Comprehensive Plan or the
current Zoning Code.
F. Check from the Applicant in the amount of $100.00 or such amount as may
be set from time to time by the City Council.
6-6.0321 APPLICATION FOR FINAL MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL: The
application shall contain the following information and documentation:
A. The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners of the land and the
developer, if other than the owners.
B. The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all professional consultants
advising the developer with respect to the Minor Subdivision.
C. The approved name of the Minor Subdivision.
D. A copy of any protective covenants or deed restrictions affecting the Minor
Subdivision.
E. A certificate to be signed by the County Treasurer, as required by Section
354.11 (5), Code of Iowa, as amended, that the land is free from certified
taxes and assessments or that suitable bond has been posted for assessments.
F. Such other and further information as the Commission may deem necessary or
appropriate to a full and proper consideration and disposition of the particular
application.
17
G. A statement by the person preparing the application attesting to the truth and
correctness of all information and documentation presented with the
application, and a statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that
the plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds.
H. A statement from the mortgage holders or lien holders, if any, that the plat is
prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire, signed
and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgement
of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section 354.12 may be
recorded in lieu of the consent of the mortgage or lien holder. When a
mortgage or lien holder consents to the subdivision, a release of mortgage or
lien shall be recorded for any areas conveyed to the governing body or
dedicated to the public.
I. An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of title to the
land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the proprietors and
holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land being platted
and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing the
encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances
for the purpose of this section.
J. A certified resolution by the City Council as required by Section 354.8, Iowa
Code, either approving the Subdivision or waiving the right to review.
6-6.0322. CONTENTS OF THE FINAL MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT: The final plat shall be
prepared by a licensed land surveyor at a convenient scale of not less than one (1) inch equals
one hundred (100) feet. The final plat shall show the following:
A. The approved name of the Minor Subdivision, which shall include the words
“Minor Subdivision.”
B. The date of the document, approximate true north arrow and the scale of the
plat. The scale shall be clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale
on each plat sheet.
C. The names and addresses of the owner of the land, the developer, if other than
the owner, and the engineering firm or surveying firm that prepared the final
plat.
D. The location by section, township, range, county and state and including
descriptive boundaries of the Subdivision, based on accurate traverse, giving
annular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
E. The exact location and layout of lots, public or private streets already existing
with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, interior angles, length
and radii, arcs and intermediate tangents of all curves, and with all other
information necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground.
18
6-6.0323. REVIEW BY COMMISSION AND COUNCIL OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS. The
process for review by the Commission and Council of Minor Subdivisions shall be the same as
specified for review of final plats in Subdivision Code Sections 6-6.0316 through 6-6.0318. The
Commission and Council reserve the power to require an Applicant to comply with all regular
Subdivision requirements when the circumstances indicate such would be appropriate.
19
TITLE VI – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 6 – SUBDIVISION CONTROL
ARTICLE 4
COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
6-6.0401 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS. Before the final plat is approved by the
Council, all applicants shall be required to execute, in accordance with the Council’s decision
and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, a Subdivision Agreement which provides for the
completion of all public improvements and maintenance of them by the City after final
acceptance of them by the City Council. All public improvements shall be dedicated to the City,
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus
dedicated.
6-6.0402 PERFORMANCE BOND. The Council, in its discretion, may waive the requirement
that the applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to approving the final
plat, and that, as an alternative, the applicant post a bond at the time of application for final plat
approval in an amount estimated by the Council as sufficient to secure to the City the satisfactory
construction, installation, and dedication of the incompleted portion of required improvements.
In addition:
1. Approved by City Attorney. Such performance bond shall comply with all statutory
requirements and shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to form, sufficiency, and
manner of execution as set forth in these regulations.
2. Completion Period. The period within which required improvements must be completed
shall be specified by the Council in the resolution approving the final plat and shall be
incorporated in the bond.
3. Extension of Completion Period. The performance bond shall be approved by the Council
as to the amount and surety and conditions satisfactory to the Council. The Commission
may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to the Council extension of the completion
date set forth in such bond for a maximum period of one additional year. The Council
may, at any time during the period of such bond, accept a substitution of principal or
sureties on the bond.
4. Temporary Improvements. The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary
improvements required by the Council and shall maintain same for the period specified
by the Council. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the
developer shall file with the City a separate suitable bond for temporary facilities, which
bond shall insure that the temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained
and removed.
5. Failure to Complete Improvement. For subdivisions for which no performance bond has
been posted, if the improvements are not completed within the period specified by the
20
Council in the resolution approving the plat, the approval shall be deemed to have
expired. In those cases where a performance bond has been posted and required
improvements have not been installed within the terms of such performance bond, the
City may declare the bond to be in default and require that all the improvements be
installed regardless of the extent of the building development at the time the bond is
declared to be in default.
6-6.0403 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS. The Council shall provide for inspection of
required improvements during construction to insure their satisfactory completion. The applicant
shall pay to the City an inspection fee equal to the actual cost of inspection. These fees shall be
due and payable upon demand of the City and no building permits or certificates of occupancy
shall be issued until all fees are paid. The subdivider shall furnish the Council with a
construction schedule prior to the commencement of any and all construction, and notify the City
not less than twenty-four (24) hours in advance of readiness for required inspections.
6-6.0404 RELEASE OR REDUCTION OF PERFORMANCE BOND. The performance bond
may not be released or reduced except as follows:
1. Certificate of Satisfactory Completion. The Council will not accept dedication of required
improvement’s, nor release, nor reduce a performance bond until the City Engineer has
submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements have been satisfactorily
completed and until the applicant’s engineer has certified to the City through submission
of detailed “as built” plans of the subdivision indicating location, dimensions, materials,
and other information required by the City, that all public improvements are in
accordance with construction plans for the subdivision.
2. Reduction of Performance Bond. A performance bond may be reduced upon actual
dedication of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the public improvement
dedicated bears to the total public improvements for the plat.
6-6.0405 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS. Improvements shall be maintained and a
maintenance bond provided as follows:
1. Maintenance of Improvements Before Acceptance. The applicant shall be required to
maintain all improvements on the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow
removal on streets and sidewalks, if required, until acceptance of said improvements by
the Council. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated to the
City, the City may on twelve (12) hours notice plow the street or effect emergency repairs
and charge same to applicant.
2. Maintenance Bond. The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance bond with the
governing body, prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by the Council
and in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney, in order to assure the satisfactory
condition of the required improvements for a period of two (2) years on water mains and
sanitary and storm sewer and four (4) years on streets after the date of their acceptance by
the governing body and dedication of same to the local government.
21
6-6.0406 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS. Required
improvements may be deferred or waived as follows:
1. Waiver of Required Improvements. The Council may defer or waive at the time of final
approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all such improvements
as in its judgement are not requisite in the interests of the public health, safety, and
general welfare, or which are inappropriate because of inadequacy or lack of connecting
facilities.
2. Deferral of Required Improvements. Whenever it is deemed necessary by the Council to
defer the construction of any improvement required herein because of incompatible
grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or for other reasons,
the applicant shall pay his share of the costs of the future improvements to the City prior
to the approval of the final plat, or the applicant may post a bond insuring completion of
said improvements upon demand of the City.
6-6.0407 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY. No certificate of occupancy
shall be issued until the extent of street improvement is adequate for vehicular access by the
prospective occupant and by police and fire equipment.
22
TITLE VI – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 6- SUBDIVISION CONTROL
ARTICLE 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS
6-6.0501 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED. The subdivider shall install and construct all
improvements required by these regulations in accordance with the specifications and under the
supervision of the Council and to its satisfaction.
6-6.0502 DESIGN STANDARDS ARE MINIMUM. The standards and details of design herein
contained are intended only as minimum requirements so that the general arrangement and
layout of a subdivision may be adjusted to a wide variety of circumstances. However, in the
design and development of the subdivision, the subdivider shall use standards consistent with the
site conditions so as to assure an economical, pleasant, and durable neighborhood.
6-6.0503 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS. In addition to
the requirements established herein, all subdividers shall comply with the following laws, rules,
and regulations.
1. State Statutes. All applicable statutes of the State of Iowa.
2. City Plans. Any comprehensive plans, public utilities plan, capital improvements
program, or other adopted plan of the City.
3. State Agency Rules. The requirements and rules of state agencies such as the State
Department of Water, Air and Waste Management, State Department of Health, and the
State Department of Transportation, where applicable.
4. County Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations of the County Board of
Supervisors and County commissions, boards, and agencies where applicable.
5. City Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations adopted by the Council,
Boards, Commissions, and Agencies of the City.
6. Plat Approved and Conformity. Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in
conformance with the above guides, or policy and purposes of these regulations.
6-6.0504 SUBDIVISION NAME. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or
too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area covered by
these regulations. The Council, after consultation with the Commission, shall have the final
authority to designate the name of the subdivision, which shall be determined at preliminary plat
approval.
23
6-6.0505 MONUMENTATION. Monuments shall be in conformance with the following
requirements:
1. Establishment of Permanent Control Monuments. Prior to the offering of the plat of any
subdivision for record, the surveyor shall confirm the prior establishment of permanent
control monuments at each controlling corner on the boundaries of the parcel or tract of
land being subdivided. If no permanent control monuments exist, the surveyor shall
establish at least two (2) permanent control monuments for each block created, or if the
area subdivided into lots is less than a block in size, at least two (2) permanent control
monuments shall be established for the subdivision. Permanent control monuments shall
be constructed of reasonably permanent material solidly embedded in the ground and
capable of being detected by commonly used magnetic or electronic equipment. The
surveyor shall affix a cap of reasonably inert material bearing an embossed or stencil cut
marking of the Iowa registration number of the surveyor to the top of the monument.
2. Other Monuments of Record. Other monuments established prior to the recording of the
plat of the subdivision and described on the plat shall be considered monuments of record
and shall be given the same weight as original permanent control monuments if the
monuments remain undisturbed in their original positions. The additional monuments
shall be constructed and embedded according to the provisions for permanent control
monuments prescribed in subsection 1 of this section.
3. Establishment and Recording of Other Monuments. Monuments other than the permanent
control monuments required in subsection 1 of this section shall not be required to be
established before the recording of the plat or the conveying of lands by reference to the
plat if the surveyor includes in the certification of the plat that the additional monuments
required by these regulations shall be established before a specified future date.
4. Additional Monuments Required. Additional monuments shall be constructed and
embedded according to the provisions for permanent control monuments prescribed in
subsection 1 of this section, and shall be set at all of the following locations whether set
prior to the recording of the plat, or subsequent to such recording:
A. At every corner and angle point of every lot, block or parcel of land created.
B. At every point of intersection of the outer boundary of the subdivision with an
existing or created right-of-way line of any streets, railroad, or other way.
C. At every point of curve, tangency, reversed curve, or compounded curve on every
right-of-way line established.
5. Placement of Monument. When the placement of a monument required by this chapter at
the prescribed location is impractical, it is permissible to establish a reference monument
in close proximity to the prescribed location. If the reference monument is established
prior to the recording of the plat and its location properly shown on the plat, the reference
monument shall have the same status as other monuments of record. Where any point
requiring monumentation has been previously monumented, the existence of the
24
monument shall be confirmed by the surveyor. The existing monument shall be
considered a monument of record when properly shown and described on the recorded
plat.
6-6.0506 CHARACTER OF THE LAND. Land which the City finds to be unsuitable for
subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations,
adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present or future
inhabitants of the subdivision or its surrounding areas or both, shall not be subdivided or
developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the subdivider and approved by the
Council, upon recommendation of the commission, to solve the problems created by the
unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a
danger.
6-6.0507 LOTS. The lot size, width, depth, shape, and orientation shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use contemplated.
1. Lot Size. The minimum lot area shall be the minimum lot area for the zoning district in
which the tract, or major portion thereof, is located according to the zoning ordinance and
zoning map of the City of Carroll.
A. Residential lots where not served by public sewer shall be of sufficient size, as
determined by the City and subject to any applicable state or county rules or
regulations, to accommodate the type of private sewage disposal system proposed by
the developer.
B. Depth and weight of properties reserved or laid out for commercial and industrial
purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service and parking facilities
required by the type of use and development contemplated.
C. Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra twenty (20) feet of width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
2. Street Access. Each lot shall be provided with satisfactory access to a public street.
3. Double Frontage and Reverse Frontage Lots. Double frontage and reverse frontage lots
shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development
from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation.
A planting screen easement of at least ten (10) feet, and across which there shall be no
right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or
other disadvantageous use.
4. Side Lot Lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight street lines
or radial to curved street lines.
5. Lot Drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general storm
25
drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of
storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
6. Building Lines. Building lines conforming with zoning standards shall be shown on all
lots within the platted area. Where the subdivided area is not under zoning control, the
Council may require building lines in accordance with the needs of each subdivision.
6-6.0508 BLOCKS. Blocks shall conform to the following requirements:
1. Provision for Lots. Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots
of appropriate depths. Exceptions shall be permitted in blocks adjacent to arterial streets,
railroads, or waterways.
2. Design Considerations. The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to:
A. Provision for adequate building sites.
B. Zoning requirements where applicable.
C. Topography.
D. Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of street traffic.
3. Block Lengths. The lengths of blocks shall be appropriate to the type of development
contemplated, but block lengths in residential developments shall not exceed thirteen
hundred twenty (1320) feet, nor be less than four hundred ten (410) feet. Wherever
practical, blocks along arterial and collector streets shall not be less than one thousand
(1000) feet in length.
4. Easement Reservation. In blocks over eight hundred (800) feet in length, the Council may
require the reservation of an easement to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities, or
pedestrian traffic.
5. Pedestrian Crosswalks. Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten (10) feet wide, may be
required by the Council through the center of blocks more than eight hundred (800) feet
in length. Pedestrian crosswalks shall not exceed twelve (12) percent in grade unless
steps of an approved design are to be constructed.
6-6.0509 STREETS, GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. Streets shall conform with the following
general requirements:
1. Frontage on Improved Roads. No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be
subdivided shall have frontage on and access from an existing street.
2. Grading and Improvement Plan. Streets shall be graded and improved and conform to the
City construction standards and specifications and shall be approved as to design and
specifications by the City Engineer, in accordance with the construction plans required to
be submitted.
26
3. Topography and Arrangement. Streets shall be in conformance with the following
requirements related to topography and arrangement:
A. Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. All streets shall be arranged
so as to obtain as many as possible of the building sites at, or above, the grades of the
streets. Grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible to the original
topography. A combination of steep grades and curves shall be avoided. Specific
standards are contained in the design standards of these regulations.
B. All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed system of
streets and dedicated right-of-way.
C. All Municipal arterial streets shall be properly related to special traffic generators
such as industries, business district, schools, churches, and shopping centers; to
population densities; and to the pattern of existing and proposed land uses.
D. Municipal service streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to the
topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient drainage and
utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to provide
convenient and safe access to property.
E. Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided,
unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or unless in the opinion
of the Council such extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the
layout of the subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
F. In business and industrial developments, the streets and other accessways shall be
planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of rail facilities, and
the provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering areas, and walks and parking
area so as to minimize conflict of movement between the various types of traffic,
including pedestrian.
4. Access to State or County Jurisdictional Roads. Whenever any part of a subdivision is
designed with access to a road under state or county jurisdiction, permission for access to
such roads shall be obtained from the appropriate jurisdiction and such access shall be
designed according to the standards of the appropriate jurisdiction.
5. Access to Arterial Streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street, the Council may require that lot access to such streets be limited
by one of the following means:
A. Lots shall be designed so as to back onto the primary arterial and front onto a parallel
municipal service street; no access shall be provided from the arterial streets, and
screening shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear property line of such lots.
27
B. A series of cul-de-sacs entered from and designed generally at right angles to such a
parallel street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the arterial street.
C. A frontage or service road, separated from the primary arterial by a planting or grass
strip and having access thereto at suitable points.
6. Street Names. Streets that are in alignment with others already existing shall bear the
name of the existing streets. The proposed names of new streets shall not duplicate or
sound similar to existing street names. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the
Council and Commission.
7. Street Name Signs. Street name signs are to be placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision, the type and location of which to be approved by the Council.
The City shall install all street name signs. The applicant shall deposit with the City at the
time of final subdivision approval, the estimated cost of installation of each street sign
required by the Council.
8. Street Lights. Installation of street lights shall be required in accordance with design and
specification standards approved by the Council.
9. Construction of Street and Dead-End Streets. Streets and dead-end streets shall be in
conformance with the following requirements:
A. Construction of Streets. The arrangement of streets shall provide for the construction
of principal streets between adjacent properties when such continuation is necessary
for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, and for efficient
provision of utilities. If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must be a
dead-end street temporarily, the right-of-way shall be extended to the property line. A
temporary T or L shaped turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end
streets, with the notation on the subdivisions plat that land outside the normal street
right-of-way shall revert to abuttors whenever the street is continued. The Council
may limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
B. Permanent Dead-end Streets. Where a road does not extend to the boundary of the
subdivision and its continuation is not required by the Council for access to adjoining
property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such boundary than one hundred
fifty (150) feet. However, the Council may require the reservation of an appropriate
easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-desac
turnaround shall be provided at the end of a permanent dead-end street in
accordance with City construction standards and specifications. For greater
convenience to traffic and more effective police and fire protection, permanent deadend
streets shall, in general, be limited to length in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
6-6.0510 STREETS; DESIGN STANDARDS. The following design standards shall apply to the
design of streets:
28
1. General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width, and improvement to
accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory access to police, fire-fighting,
snow removal, sanitation, and street maintenance equipment, and to coordinate streets so
as to compose a convenient system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the
following design standards for streets are hereby required:
A. A tangent at least one hundred (100) feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on municipal arterial and municipal collector streets, and seventy-five (75) feet
on municipal service streets.
B. When connecting street lines deflect from each other, they shall be connected by a
curve with a radius adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than two hundred
(200) feet for municipal service and three hundred (300) feet for municipal collector
streets, and of such greater radii as the Council shall determine for special cases.
C. Minimum Roadway and Right-of-Way Standards:
1. Municipal arterial streets shall have a right-of-way width of not less than sixty
(60) feet and a roadway width of not less than thirty-one (31) feet.
2. Municipal collector streets shall have a right-of-way width of not less than fifty
(50) feet and a roadway width of not less than twenty-eight (28) feet.
3. Municipal service streets shall have a right-of-way of not less than fifty (50) feet
and a roadway width of not less than twenty-eight (28) feet.
4. Frontage streets shall have a right-of-way width of not less than fifty (50) feet and
a roadway width of not less than twenty-eight (28) feet.
5. Cul-de-sacs shall meet all the requirements for a municipal service street and, in
addition, shall provide a turnaround with a right-of-way radius of fifty-three (53)
feet and a roadway radius of forty-two (42) feet. No cul-de-sacs shall exceed five
hundred (500) feet in length.
D. Street grades, wherever feasible shall not exceed the following:
1. Municipal arterial streets – ten (10) percent.
2. Municipal collector streets – ten (10) percent.
3. Municipal service streets – fifteen (15) percent.
4. Frontage streets – ten (10) percent.
E. All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum length
in feet equal to twenty-eight (28) times the algebraic difference in percents of grade
29
for crest vertical curves and thirty-five (35) times the algebraic difference in percents
of grade for sag vertical curves.
F. No street grade shall be less than one half (0.5) of one percent. No street grade shall
be less than thirty-five hundredths (0.35) percent within fifty (50) feet of the
horizontal point on a vertical curve.
2. Street Surfacing and Improvements. After sewer, water and other utilities to be located
underground within the right-of-way have been installed by the applicant, the applicant
shall construct curbs and gutters and shall surface or cause to be surfaced roadways to the
widths prescribed in these regulations. Said pavement shall be of Portland cement
concrete or asphaltic cement concrete. Adequate provision shall be made for culverts,
drains, and bridges. All road pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures,
curbs, turnarounds and sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards and
specifications adopted by the City, and shall be incorporated into the construction plans
required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
3. Excess Right-of-Way. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards designated in these
regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography, additional widths is necessary
to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes shall not be in excess of three (3) to one.
4. Railroads and Limited Access Highways. Railroad rights-of-way and limited access
highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of adjoining land shall be treated
as following:
A. In residential districts a buffer strip at least twenty-five (25) feet in depth in addition
to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be provided adjacent to the
railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This strip shall be part of the platted
lots and shall be designated on the plat: “This strip is reserved for screening. The
placement of structures hereon is prohibited”.
B. In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses, the nearest street
extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad shall, wherever
practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure suitable depth for
commercial or industrial sites.
C. Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which crosses the railroad at
grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a distance of at least one hundred fifty
(150) feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distances shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for future separation of grades by
means of appropriate approach gradients.
5. Intersections. The following standards shall apply to the design of intersections:
A. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles. A
proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an angle of less than seventy-five (75)
degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be curved approaching an
30
intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at least one hundred
(100) feet therefrom. Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point
unless specifically approved by the Council.
B. Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street shall, wherever
practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the opposite side of such
street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty (150) feet shall
not be permitted, except where the intersected street has separated dual drives without
median breaks at either intersection. Where streets intersect major streets, their
alignment shall be continuous. Intersection of major streets shall be at least eight
hundred (800) feet apart.
C. Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) municipal service streets shall be
at least twenty (20) feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection involving a
municipal collector street shall be at least twenty-five (25) feet. Abrupt changes in
alignment within a block shall contain horizontal curves in accordance with standard
engineering practice to permit safe vehicular movement.
D. Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical. In hilly or rolling
areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area shall be provided having not
greater than a two (2) percent rate at a distance of sixty (60) feet, measured from the
nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
E. Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing vegetation inside
any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting visibility, the developer
shall cut such ground and/or vegetation, including trees, in connection with the
grading of the public right-of-way to the extent deemed necessary to provide an
adequate sight distance.
F. The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be three (3) percent or
less.
6. Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by the Council, shall
be constructed at the full expense of the applicant without reimbursement from the City.
The sharing expense for the construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the
applicant as determined by the Council, will be fixed by special agreement between the
Council and the applicant. Said cost shall be charged to the applicant pro rata as the
percentage of his land is developed and so served.
7. Alleys. The following design standards for alleys shall be required of all subdividers:
A. Alleys shall be prohibited in residential districts.
B. Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts, except that the
Council may waive this requirement where other definite and assured provision is
made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and parking consistent
with and adequate for the uses proposed.
31
C. Alleys shall have a right-of-way of not less than twenty (20) feet and a roadway width
of not less than twenty (20) feet.
D. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but where
necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement.
E. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable, shall be
provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the dead-end, as determined by the
Council.
8. Street Dedications and Reservations. The following provisions shall apply to street
dedications and reservations.
A. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new
perimeter half-streets. Where an existing half street is adjacent to a new subdivision,
the other half of the street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The
Council may authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and
dedicates the entire required street right-of-way width within his own subdivision
boundaries.
B. Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow street or when City plans or zoning
setback regulations indicate plans for alignment or widening a road that would require
use of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve
and dedicate at his expense such areas for widening or realignment of such roads.
Such frontage roads and streets shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at
his own expense to the full width as required by these subdivision regulations. Land
reserved for any street purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area
requirements of the zoning regulations whether the land is to be dedicated to the City
in fee simple or an easement is granted to the City.
6-6.0511 STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE. The following requirements shall apply to the
provision of storm sewers and drainage:
1. General Requirements. The Commission shall not recommend for approval any plat of a
subdivision which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood water run-off
channels or basins. The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of
any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by methods
as approved by the Council, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along
with plans. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point no
further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and inlets shall be used to
intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and
every lot and block.
2. Nature of Storm Water Facilities. The applicant may be required by the council to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist either previously
to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities shall be located in the road
32
right-of-way where feasible, or in a perpetual unobstructed easement in accordance with
the construction standards and specifications.
A. Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall install storm sewer
facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate provision shall be
made for the disposal of storm waters, subject to the specifications of the Council.
However, in subdivisions containing lots less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square
feet in area and in business and industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems
shall be constructed throughout the subdivision and be conducted to an approved
outlet.
B. If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually, as determined by
the Council, the subdivider shall make arrangements for future storm sewer disposal
by a public storm sewer system at the time the plat receives final approval. Provision
for such connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the performance bond
required for the subdivision plat.
C. A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to
accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside
or outside the subdivision. The Council shall determine the necessary size of the
facility, based on the provisions of the construction standards and specifications
assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development permitted by
applicable zoning regulations.
D. The Council shall also study the effect of each subdivision on existing downstream
drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision. City drainage studies together
with such other studies as shall be appropriate shall serve as a guide to needed
improvements. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the
development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage
facility, the Council may withhold approval of the subdivision until provision has
been made for the recovery of the cost for the improvement of said potential
condition in such sum as the Council shall determine. No subdivision shall be
approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage
watercourse or facility.
E. The Council may, when it deems it necessary for the health, safety, or welfare of the
present and future population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water,
drainage, and sanitary facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the
property which lies within the flood plain of any stream or drainage course.
3. Dedication of Drainage Easements. The following shall apply to the dedication of
drainage easements.
A. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream,
there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming
substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such width and construction or
both as will be adequate for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the
33
drainage be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate
width for maximum potential volume of flow.
B. Drainage easements:
1. Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical the
inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way, perpetual unobstructed
easements at least fifteen (15) feet in width for such drainage facilities shall be
provided across property outside the street lines and with satisfactory access to the
road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat. Drainage easements shall be
carried from the street to a natural watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
2. When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private land outside the
subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and indicated on the plat.
3. The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or conservation easement
of land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a distance to be determined by
the Council.
4. Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or overflowing during
storm periods, whether or not included in areas for dedication, shall be preserved
and retained in their natural state as drainage ways. Such land or lands subject to
periodic flooding shall not be computed in determining the area requirement of
any lot.
6-6.0512 WATER FACILITIES. Water facilities shall be provided as follows:
1. General Requirements. The following general requirements shall apply to the provision
of water facilities.
A. Where a public water main is accessible, the subdivider shall install adequate water
facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to City specifications. All water mains shall
be at least six (6) inches in diameter.
B. Water main extensions shall be approved by the City.
C. To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants and all water supply
improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
2. Individual Wells and Central Water Systems. The following requirements shall apply to
the provision of individual wells and central water systems.
A. In the discretion of the Council, if a public water system is not available, individual
wells may be used or a central water system provided in such a manner that an
adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the subdivision.
Water samples shall be submitted to the appropriate County or State agency for
testing, and individual wells and central water systems shall be approved by the
34
appropriate County or State health authorities. Orders of approval shall be submitted
to the Council.
B. If the Council requires that a connection to a public water main be eventually
provided as a condition to approval of an individual well or central water system, the
applicant shall make arrangements for future water service at the time the plat
receives final approval. Performance or cash bonds may be required to insure
compliance.
3. Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions except those coming
under subsection 2 of Section 6-6.0512. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than six
hundred (600) feet apart and within three hundred (300) feet of any structure and shall be
approved by the City.
6-6.0513 SEWERAGE FACILITIES. Sewerage facilities shall be provided as follows:
1. General Requirements. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner
prescribed by the City construction standards and specifications. All plans shall be
designed in accordance with the rules, regulations, and standards of the City and the State
Department of Water, Air and Waste Management or State Department of Health. Plans
shall be approved by the above agencies.
2. Construction of Sanitary Sewerage Systems. Sanitary sewerage shall be constructed as
follows:
A. Where a public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible, the applicant shall
connect with same and provide sewers accessible to each lot in the subdivision.
B. Where public sanitary sewerage systems are not reasonably accessible but will
become available within a reasonable time, not to exceed fifteen (15) years, the
applicant may choose one of the following alternatives:
1. Install a central sewerage system, operated and maintained by the benefited
property owners. Where plans for future public sanitary sewerage systems exist,
the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals, and mains to be in permanent
conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such public sewer
mains.
2. Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall install sanitary sewer
lines, laterals, and mains from the street curb to a point in the subdivision
boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main shall be made.
Sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the street line, and a connection shall
be available in the home to connect from the individual disposal system to the
sewer system when the public sewers become available. Such sewer systems shall
be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all plans for installation of the
public sewer system, where such exist, and shall be ready for connection to such
public sewer main.
35
C. Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will not become
available for period in excess of fifteen (15) years, the applicant shall install
individual disposal systems or central sewerage systems.
3. Individual Disposal System Requirements. If public sewer facilities are not available and
individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot areas shall conform to the
requirements of applicable zoning regulations and these regulations. Percolation tests and
test holes shall be made as directed by the City and the results submitted to the local
Board of Health.
4. Water Supply Interconnections. There shall be no physical connection between a public
or private potable water supply system and a sewer which will permit the passage of any
sewage or polluted water into the potable supply. Sewers shall be kept removed from
water supply wells or other water supply sources and structures.
6-6.0514 SIDEWALKS. The following requirements shall apply to the provision of sidewalks:
1. Location of Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated non-pavement
right-of-way of all streets.
2. Construction of Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be improved as required in subsection 2 of
Section 6-6.0510 of these regulations.
6-6.0515 UTILITIES. The following shall apply to the provision of utilities:
1. Location. The Council may require that all utility facilities, including but not limited to
gas, electric power, telephone, cable television, and CATV cables, be located
underground throughout the subdivision. All utility facilities existing and proposed
throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat. Underground service
connections to the street property line of each platted lot shall be installed at the
subdivider’s expense. At the discretion of the Council, the requirement for service
connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in
single ownership and intended to be developed for the same primary use.
2. Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
A. Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities. Such easements
shall be at least ten (10) feet wide. Proper coordination shall be established between
the subdivider and the applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility
easements established in adjoining properties.
B. Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion
of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual unobstructed easements at least ten (10)
feet in width shall be provided along side lot lines with satisfactory access to the
street or rear lot lines. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
36
6-6.0516 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES. Existing features
which would add value to residential development or to the City as a whole, such as trees,
watercourses and falls, beaches, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision nor
any change of grade of the land affected until approval of the preliminary plat has been granted.
All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be preserved, and all trees where required shall
be protected against change of grade.
6-6.0517 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS. The following provisions shall apply to nonresidential
subdivisions.
1. General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is used for commercial or industrial
purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to such land shall make such
provision as the Council may require. A non-residential subdivision shall be subject to all
the requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the
Council, and shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in City
plans and regulations.
2. Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations, which are
appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the City that the street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically
adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed.
A. Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to the types of
industrial development anticipated.
B. Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate the type and
volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
C. Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to street, curb, gutter,
and sidewalk design and construction.
D. Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to the installation of
public utilities, including water, sewer, and storm sewer drainage.
E. Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from potential
nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision, including the
provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or potential residential
development and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer strip when
necessary.
F. Streets carrying non-residential traffic, especially truck traffic, shall not normally be
extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential residential areas.
6-6.0518 PUBLIC LAND. The provision of public land for school, parks, and recreational
purposes is considered essential to the proper development of the City and the owner and/or
37
developer shall pay to the City of Carroll, an amount of money equal to five (5) percent of the
estimated value of the entire tract being platted, without any physical improvements thereon. The
land shall be appraised by the Commission or its appraiser. The fund which accumulates shall be
used by the City of Carroll for the acquisition of public lands.
The owner and/or developer may, with the Council approval, deed the fee simple title to a
location or lot within the tract which comprises five (5) percent of the total acreage of the land
being platted.
If land to be subdivided contains a proposed site for a public use, the owner and/or developer
shall reserve such site for such use. The Council may have the proposed site appraised
independently, and upon payment of the appraised value to the owner, the owner shall convey
the same in fee simple to the City or other governmental agencies. If sites which have been
reserved are not acquired by the City or other public body within two (2) years of the date of the
final plat approval, then such sites may be subdivided by the developer. The appropriate public
body may release the reserved site sooner by certifying to the Council that it does not intend to
acquire such site within the two (2) year period.
6-6.0519 IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN UNINCORPORATED JURISDICTION. Improvements
in the two (2) mile unincorporated area under the jurisdiction of these regulations shall be the
same as required herein, provided they are not less than that required by the applicable county
subdivision regulations, and provided further that all construction plans shall be approved by the
County and completed public roads shall be accepted by the Board of Supervisors for public
maintenance.
38
TITLE VI – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 6 – SUBDIVISION CONTROL
ARTICLE 6
ADMINISTRATION
6-6.0601 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS. The following shall apply to the granting of
variations or exceptions.
1. Hardships. Where the Council finds that extraordinary hardships or particular difficulties
regarding the physical development of land may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, it may make variations or exceptions to the regulations so that substantial
justice may be done and the public interest secured, provided that such variation or
exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these
regulations; and further provided the Council shall not grant variations or exceptions to
these regulations unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in
each specific case that:
A. The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public safety, health, or
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which
the property is located.
B. The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are unique to the
property for which the variation is sought, and are not applicable, generally, to other
property.
C. Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical conditions of
the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the regulations were
carried out.
D. The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire to make more
money out of the property.
2. Conditions. In granting variations and exceptions, the Council may require such
conditions as will, in its judgement, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or
requirements of these regulations.
3. Procedure for a Variance. A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in writing
by the developer at the time when the preliminary plat is filed. The petition shall state
fully the grounds for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
39
6-6.0602 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS. Any provisions of these regulations may be
changed and amended from time to time by the Council, provided, however, that such changes or
amendments shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been held, public notice
of which shall have been given as required by law. Such proposed amendments shall first be
submitted to the Commission for study and recommendation before the hearing is held. The
commission shall forward its recommendations to the Council within thirty (30) days after which
the Council shall give notice of and hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment.
6-6.0603 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES. No plat or subdivision within
the City or within two (2) miles thereof shall be filed or recorded with the County, nor shall any
plat or subdivision have any validity until it complies with the provision of these regulations, has
been approved by the Council as herein set forth, and further:
1. Issuance of Building Permits. No more than two (2) building permits for each separate
tract existing at the time of the effective date of these regulations shall be issued unless
the tract has been platted in accordance with these regulations; except this provision shall
not limit the number of building permits that may be issued for accessory buildings as
defined by applicable land use regulations such as zoning and restricted residence
regulations or additions or improvements to a main or accessory building already legally
located upon said tract.
2. Sale or Lease Without Plat. Any person who shall dispose of or offer for sale or lease any
lots in the City or addition to the City, until the plat thereof has been acknowledged and
recorded as provided in these regulations; shall forfeit and pay fifty (50) dollars for each
lot and part of lot sold or disposed of, leased, or offered for sale.
 
 










